"I didn't do it. They create a phony crime," Trump said during a live interview on "Hannity." "And then, they say, 'he obstructed.' They said there was no collusion but 'he obstructed,' and there has never been anything like this ever in this country."

When asked by lawmakers whether or not the findings of the nearly two-year-long Russia investigation truly exonerated the president, Mueller testified before two House committees on Wednesday afternoon, answering, "No."resident Trump lashed out at Democrats following former Special Counsel Robert Mueller's testimony on Capitol Hill, telling Fox News' Sean Hannity on Thursday night the Democrats "created this phony crime" by accusing him of obstruction of justice.

"I didn't do it. They create a phony crime," Trump said during a live interview on "Hannity." "And then, they say, 'he obstructed.' They said there was no collusion but 'he obstructed,' and there has never been anything like this ever in this country."

When asked by lawmakers whether or not the findings of the nearly two-year-long Russia investigation truly exonerated the president, Mueller testified before two House committees on Wednesday afternoon, answering, "No."

Trump reiterated his desire to "investigate the investigators" over the origins of the Russia probe and said Attorney General William Barr would be "looking into it."

For his part, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler, D-N.Y., said after the hearings: "Today was a watershed day in telling the facts to the American people. With those facts, we can proceed, and we face a time of great danger."

"This should never happen to another president of the United States again," Trump said. "This is an absolute catastrophe for our country. This was a fake witch hunt."

During his testimony, Mueller denied Trump's assertions that the investigation was a "witch hunt" and insinuated that the Trump campaign welcomed Russian aid to help them win the 2016 election.

(CNN) - The manhunt for two Canadian teenagers suspected of killing three people is focused on a swampy, small town in rural northern Manitoba with just over 1,000 people and an inhospitable environment.

Canadian authorities converged Thursday on Gillam in their search for Kam McLeod, 19, and Bryer Schmegelsky, 18, who are accused of killing a roadtripping couple and a university botany teacher. The search for the teens has taken authorities about 2,000 miles across Canada's rural north -- from British Columbia to Manitoba -- in a case with victims with three different nationalities.

The suspects were reportedly spotted in Meadow Lake, Saskatchewan, on Sunday, and their Toyota RAV4 was found on fire and discarded in an area outside of Gillam near the Fox Lake Cree Nation reserve on Monday.

The two also were spotted twice in the area of Gillam, a town with one road in and out, before the burnt vehicle was discovered, Cpl. Julie Courchaine, a spokeswoman for the Manitoba division of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, said.

She said there are no reports of car thefts in the town that can be linked to the duo.

"We believe they are still in the area," she told reporters. About 80 tips have come in in the past two days, she said.

The manhunt includes the use of aircraft and police dogs, she said.

Tough conditions in search area

The two are suspected of killing Chynna Deese, a 24-year-old American, and Lucas Fowler, her 23-year-old Australian boyfriend, whose bodies were found July 15 near Liard Hot Springs in northern British Columbia.

The duo is also charged with second-degree murder in the death of Len Dyck, a lecturer at the University of British Columbia, whose body was found July 19 near Dease Lake in British Columbia.

Authorities initially believed McLeod and Schmegelsky were missing, but they were named as suspects on Tuesday. They are considered armed and dangerous, authorities said.

If the teens are on foot, they will be dealing with difficult weather and hordes of biting flies, Gillam officials said.

"We have sandflies, black flies, mosquitoes, horseflies," Gillam Deputy Mayor John McDonald said. "Let me say if we were parked on a side street and we were having a conversation outside, and you didn't have any insect repellent on, or any long sleeves -- let's just say that we would cut our conversation short."

"And in the bush," McDonald said. "Magnify that by 10-20 times. Forget it."

Courchaine said the search was tough.

"This is very challenging terrain. ... There's lots of dense bush, forest, swampy area," she said.

A tight-knit community locks its doors

The strong police presence associated with a manhunt is particularly noticeable in Gillam, a tight-knit community of 1,200 people not known as much of a destination.

"Most of us in Gillam are baffled as to why they would be here. There's only one road in and one road out," McDonald said.

A tactical assault vehicle sits outside the locked town offices, where the RCMP has set up their command center for the search.

"Everyone is keeping their door locked during the day," McDonald said. "Just being a little more cautious than normal."

The search has been focused on the rugged bush near Fox Lake Cree Nation. The weather conditions and biting flies in Gillam this time of year are intense, and are making it difficult for police -- and, potentially, the suspects -- to stay out for long.

"You have to hand it to the RCMP out there in all their gear in the bush," McDonald said, noting that it was 31 degrees Celsius, or 88 degrees Fahrenheit, on Wednesday.

Suspect will go out in 'blaze of glory,' father says

Schmegelsky's father said Wednesday that he doesn't believe his son will survive the manhunt.

"Basically, he's going to be dead today or tomorrow. I know that," Alan Schmegelsky told The Canadian Press, according to CNN news partner CTV News. "Rest in peace, Bryer. I love you. I'm so sorry all this had to happen. I'm so sorry that I couldn't rescue you."

The father said his son has been dealing with mental anguish and plans to go out in "a blaze of glory."

"A normal child doesn't travel across the country, killing people. A child in some very serious pain does," he said.

Alan Schmegelsky described his son as an introvert, saying he played a lot of video games. He said McLeod and his son were good friends and hung out together. Both had jobs at Walmart, but they said they weren't making enough money and decided to go to Alberta to look for work, he said.

"I believed that's what they were going to do, and I was absolutely flabbergasted to learn that two days later, and I found this out from the paper," he said.

McLeod is 6 feet, 4 inches tall, 169 pounds and has dark hair, facial hair and brown eyes. Schmegelsky is 6 feet, 4 inches tall and 169 pounds with sandy hair, police said.

A couple in love and a university lecturer

Deese and Fowler were on a road trip through Canada to Alaska, their families said. Fowler was living in British Columbia, and they were exploring the area while Deese was visiting, RCMP said.

Canadian police released surveillance video Monday of Fowler and Deese embracing at a gas station in Fort Nelson on July 13. Her mother, Sheila Deese, told CNN she watched that video over and over again.

The mother said she was struck by the size 12 boots that Fowler was wearing. When she visited Chynna's apartment in Charlotte before the trip, Chynna was struggling to fit those same boots into her suitcase.

"I got Lucas these boots. I hope he likes them," Chynna said at the time, her mother recalled.

Fowler's father, New South Wales Police Force Chief Inspector Stephen Fowler, said his son was "having the time of his life" traveling the world with a woman he loved.

"I may be an experienced police officer, but today I'm standing here as the father of a murder victim," he said Monday. "We are just distraught. This has really torn two families apart."

Police found Dyck's body Friday about a mile from where a vehicle and camper belonging to McLeod and Schmegelsky were found burning on the side of Highway 37.

Dyck was a sessional lecturer in the University of British Columbia's Department of Botany and a research associate at the university's DeWreede Lab, and his research focused on seaweeds.

"The UBC community is shocked and saddened by this news and we offer our deepest condolences to Mr. Dyck's family, friends and his colleagues at the university," the university said.

The RCMP did not say how Dyck was identified, but his family has been notified.

"We are truly heart broken by the sudden and tragic loss of Len," a statement from his family said. "His death has created unthinkable grief and we are struggling to understand what has happened. While we understand there will be interest in knowing more about him and the impact he had during his life, we are asking for the public and the media to please respect our privacy during this difficult time."

(CNN) - The father of one of two Canadian teens wanted in the killings of a young American woman, her Australian boyfriend and a Canadian man said Wednesday that he doesn't believe his son will survive the nationwide manhunt.

"Basically, he's going to be dead today or tomorrow. I know that," Alan Schmegelsky, whose son Bryer is a suspect, told The Canadian Press. "Rest in peace, Bryer. I love you. I'm so sorry all this had to happen. I'm so sorry that I couldn't rescue you."

The comments came the same day authorities charged Kam McLeod, 19, and Bryer Schmegelsky, 18, with one count of second degree murder in the death of Leonard "Len" Dyck of Vancouver, British Columbia.

Dyck's body was found Friday, and authorities were able to identify him after releasing a composite sketch of the man.

"As a result of the charges, Canada-wide warrants have been issued," the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Department said in a news release. "RCMP investigators across the country continue to share information with other law enforcement agencies as the suspects remain at large."

The suspects have been moving east since last week, authorities said. They were reportedly spotted in Meadow Lake, Saskatchewan, on Sunday, and their Toyota vehicle was found burned on Monday near Gillam, a town of just over 1,200 people with only one major road running through it.

Initially, the two were believed to be missing. Now, the RCMP say they are suspects in the shooting deaths of Dyck, as well as Chynna Noelle Deese, a 24-year-old American, and Lucas Robertson Fowler, her 23-year-old Australian boyfriend.

Go out in a 'blaze of glory'

In the emotionally charged interview with The Canadian Press, Alan Schmegelsky said his son has been dealing with mental anguish and plans to go out in "a blaze of glory."

"A normal child doesn't travel across the country, killing people. A child in some very serious pain does," he said.

Schmegelsky described his son as an introvert, saying he played a lot of video games.

He said McLeod and his son were good friends, who hung out a lot together.

Both had jobs at Walmart, but said they weren't making enough money and decided to go to Alberta to look for work, he said.

"I believed that's what they were going to do, and I was absolutely flabbergasted to learn that two days later, and I found this out from the paper," he said.

Schmegelsky said he believes the RCMP will "shoot first and ask questions later."

Police say the two are 'armed and dangerous'

McLeod and Schmegelsky are considered armed and dangerous, and members of the public should not approach them, authorities said. They were last seen in northern Saskatchewan — about a day's drive east of where the bodies were found — driving a gray 2011 Toyota RAV4, authorities said.

The pair may now be in Manitoba, east of Saskatchewan, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said. The Manitoba RCMP confirmed Wednesday they had recovered the suspects' Toyota near Gillam.

"The two may being using a different vehicle, on foot or even traveling separately. If they are spotted, do not approach, call 9-1-1 or your local police immediately," the RCMP said.

The RCMP have dispatched more officers to the area and set up an informational checkpoint at the road leading into town, RCMP Cpl. Julie Courchaine said.

McLeod is 6 feet, 4 inches tall, 169 pounds and has dark hair, facial hair and brown eyes. Schmegelsky is 6 feet, 4 inches tall and 169 pounds with sandy hair, police said.

They are suspected in the shooting deaths of Deese and Fowler, whose bodies were found on July 15 about 12 miles south of Liard Hot Springs in northern British Columbia, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said.

Fowler was living in British Columbia, and they were exploring the area while Deese was visiting him, RCMP Sgt. Janelle Shoihet said. Deese's mother, Sheila Deese, said the couple had been on a road trip through Canada up to Alaska.

'His death has created unthinkable grief'

Police found Dyck's body several days later about a mile from where a vehicle and camper belonging to McLeod and Schmegelsky were found burning on the side of Highway 37.

Dyck was a sessional, or contract, lecturer in the University of British Columbia's Department of Botany and a research associate at the university's DeWreede Lab. His research focused on seaweeds.

"The UBC community is shocked and saddened by this news and we offer our deepest condolences to Mr. Dyck's family, friends and his colleagues at the university," the university said.

The RCMP did not say how Dyck was identified, but his family has been notified.

"We are truly heart broken by the sudden and tragic loss of Len," a statement from his family said. "His death has created unthinkable grief and we are struggling to understand what has happened. While we understand there will be interest in knowing more about him and the impact he had during his life, we are asking for the public and the media to please respect our privacy during this difficult time."

Authorities declined to say what new information led them to name the two Canadian teenagers as suspects. But it came just a day after the RCMP said it was a "possible" that their disappearance was related to the couple's death.

The teens, both from Port Alberni, were traveling through British Columbia to the Yukon Territory to look for work, the RCMP had said.

CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story credited the wrong media organization that interviewed Alan Schmegelsky. It was The Canadian Press.

(CNN) - Scherie Murray is the most recent black Republican getting heavy rotation on conservative media outlets. Not because of policies or any political experience. She is a black Donald Trump supporter, which is the latest stunt to become famous in politics or social media.

Last week, Murray announced she would challenge Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in New York's 14th district, calling the freshmen congressional representative's politics "toxic" and claiming that she is just "worried about being famous."

However, just a year ago, Murray was praising AOC, writing on Twitter, "Congratulations Alexandria. #Queens is headed in a new direction and It's time for new leadership. #Yes."

AOC has only been in office six months and was clear about her vision before her opponent congratulated her. Murray has a history of being a Democrat who reportedly switched to being a Republican a decade ago; however, she admittedly voted for Barack Obama twice. Challenging AOC as a Democrat would not have gotten her the press she appears to crave.

Since her grand announcement, the 38-year-old businesswoman has appeared on Fox News' "Watters' World," "The Ingraham Angle" and "Sean Hannity."

Shouldn't that time be spent talking to her constituents, who are predominantly Democrat and obviously not Fox News watchers? Most bizarre, the Jamaican-born immigrant does not even live in the district she wants to represent; she resides in Laurelton, Queens. However, her Twitter followers have skyrocketed and, I predict, so have her donations.

So what changed? The same thing that may have changed Candace Owens, Omarosa Manigault Newman, or countless others. The access to political fame is much quicker when you are in a black body condoning, advocating, and providing talking points to support blatant racism, and appalling policies that target black and brown communities.

Omarosa Manigault Newman is certainly a trailblazer in the field of opportunist Trump worshippers. After she disappeared from media, she saw an opportunity and campaigned for Trump. She claimed she knew he used the N-word before the 2016 election but that didn't stop her. Trump has denied that he used the N-word.

The reality star, who once worked in -- and was fired from -- Bill Clinton's administration, gleefully wore the "Make America Great Again" hat and told the country to "bow down" to Trump. Only after she was fired from Trump's White House did she claim to see the racist light and went on a failed apology tour. By the way, what happened to the damning Trump recording she promised would drop before the 2018 midterms? Anything to sell a product, just as Trump taught her, and her book was a New York Times bestseller.

Then there is Candace Owens, Omarosa 2.0. The 30-year-old was the CEO of a website, called Degree180, which frequently had anti-Trump posts. When the site shut down in 2016, no one knew her name until she "came out" as a conservative on YouTube a few months later. Her videos quickly went viral and soon she was tap-dancing on Fox News.

Owens now calls the NAACP "one of the worst groups for Black people," when the organization helped her win a $37,500 settlement over racial discrimination. Connecticut NAACP president Scot X. Esdaile, who helped with the case, told Mic in April of 2018, "We're very saddened and disappointed in her. It seems to me that she's now trying to play to a different type of demographic."

Owens, who once said on Fox News that the NRA was founded as a civil rights organization that protected Black people from the KKK, got the airtime she wouldn't have gotten as a liberal commentator or via her failed doxxing site. She now speaks all over the country and has over 1.5 million followers on Twitter. She also made hateful comments while she was communications director of Turning Point USA, a conservative student activism group. Her most vile moment was when she babbled that she would be okay if Hitler just wanted to "make Germany great ." After comments like these (though she did later try to clarify them), she was still invited by Republicans to speak before the House Judiciary Committee hearing on "Hate Crimes and the Rise of White Nationalism." Without her convenient conversion, she would still be a struggling personality.

Even MTV's latest season of "The Real World" is marketing a Black, pansexual Trump supporter, and Refinery 29 predicts "culture clashes." Considering the Trump administration's rollback on LGBT protections, we'll see how sincere the 25-year-old's support of Trump is.

Contrary to what Kanye West, who says he's never voted, might want you to believe, black Trump worshippers are not free thinkers. Throughout history, there have always been black folks who betrayed their own but the path to freedom has never been forged by aligning with the oppressor.

Do Republicans know this new flock of Trump worshippers may be frauds? Absolutely. How could they not when the receipts are easily traceable? Nonetheless, a fraud is worth it if they can find a black apologist who will allow Republicans to use the trite excuse of, "See, Trump can't be racist -- look at Ben Carson!"

Black Republicans are in the very fabric of American history. The first African Americans to hold political office were part of the Radical Republican Party in the late 1800s. But this isn't about policy; it's about fame and followers, another result of our cult of celebrity.

Owens, Murray, neck-rolling Diamond and Silk, Pastor Darrell Scott and a handful of other Trump supporters' main talking points have been "get off the Democratic planation" and "welfare policies are destroying black people" -- when there are more white people who are helped by federal assistance programs than black people. Their talking points are trite, combative and often times factually incorrect.

These are not the Republicans of Colin Powell, Condoleezza Rice or Sen. Tim Scott, with whom I vehemently disagree but whose careers speak to their commitment and intentions -- which may be why you never see them associate with the current crop of black Trump followers. Moreover, being a black Republican doesn't mean you have to be a black Trump supporter.

There is a robust market for the delusional black Trump supporter. It is, as we've seen, a shorter line to fame, money, celebrity and power. Scherie Murray is the latest to have sold her soul and she will be welcomed with open arms, regardless of her chances of winning or the fact that she was openly supportive of Obama and Ocasio-Cortez. Ironically, it is comparable to the affirmative action that Trump's administration has been against.

Trump denies that he is a racist, but the rhetoric and policies -- which are supported by white nationalists -- are clear. For the black Trump supporters, they are not in the dark. They know exactly who the President is. Yes, black people are not a monolith -- but we must all be a monolith against white supremacy and the politicians who fail to speak out against it.

(CNN) - President Donald Trump's pick for the top spokeswoman job at the Treasury Department repeatedly spread conspiracy theories that suggested then-President Barack Obama was secretly a Muslim who was sympathetic to America's enemies.

Monica Crowley, who was appointed by Trump last week as assistant treasury secretary for public affairs, made multiple comments spreading these false claims on her personal blog and in at least one tweet between 2009 and 2015, according to a review by CNN's KFile team.

Crowley also endorsed a story claiming Obama was an "Islamic community organizer" trying to conform the United States to Sharia law and claimed conspiracy theories about Obama's birth certificate were "legitimate concerns." During Obama's presidency, Trump was one of the most prominent voices pushing the so-called birther conspiracy theories questioning Obama's birthplace. When he was seeking the presidency himself and under continual questioning, Trump finally admitted that Obama was born in the US but offered no apologies or explanation for the years he spent sowing doubt about Obama's origins.

Crowley, formerly a syndicated radio host, columnist and Fox News contributor, was originally chosen by Trump in December 2016 to be the senior director of strategic communications for the National Security Council. She withdrew herself from consideration for that position after CNN's KFile team uncovered extensive plagiarism in her book and doctoral thesis.

Crowley did not respond to a request for comment. A spokesperson for the Treasury Department also did not respond to a request for comment.

Suggested Obama was a Muslim

Writing on her blog in August 2010, Crowley blasted Obama for supporting the right to build an Islamic community center and mosque in lower Manhattan. Some conservatives seized on the issue making it a flash-point and objecting to, at times using highly inflammatory rhetoric, building a mosque so close to the site of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.

Crowley wrote that Obama had loyalties to Islam and questioned if he could support both Islam and the United States.

"Maybe politics didn't have anything to do with it, but Islam certainly did. And does. Obama was born to a Muslim father, which under Islam automatically made him a Muslim. He says he converted to Christianity as an adult, which under Islam makes him an apostate," wrote Crowley. "He grew up in Indonesia, which is the most populous Muslim nation on earth. His stepfather was also a Muslim. He was steeped in Islam throughout his formative years, so it should come as no surprise that he has loyalties to Islam. During the 2008 campaign, he even slipped and claimed that the United States has '57' states, instead of 50. The number of Muslim states in the Organization of the Islamic Conference is 57."

"It may not come as a shock that he appears loyal to Islam. The question is: can he be both loyal to Islam and loyal to the United States?" she added.

Crowley added, "How could he....support the enemy?"

Called birther conspiracy theories legitimate

Writing in a blog post in April 2011 after the release of Obama's long-form birth certificate, Crowley praised Donald Trump for questioning Obama's citizenship and called concerns about the birth certificate legitimate.

"If the birth certificate were never a big deal, why did No Drama Obama wait nearly 3 years before releasing it? Why endure and stoke all of the drama? To make those raising legitimate concerns about his origins and policies look like kooks? Maybe," wrote Crowley.

"For over 2 1/2 years, questions have been raised about Obama's origins and background," she added. "He was never properly vetted by an adoring press corps, so outstanding concerns existed about his birth certificate (the long-form of which he had never released), where he grew up, his family's religious background, his parents' political beliefs, how he got into top schools such as Columbia and Harvard Law, how he paid for his education, what his grades were, etc. The questions were and are legitimate, and yet were never fully answered. In fact, anyone daring to ask them was painted as a fringe moron at best and racist at worst."

In 2011, Hawaiian officials, at Obama's request, released the long form of his birth certificate. It indicated that he had, indeed, been born in Hawaii. Conspiracy theorists continue to allege the document was a forgery.

Said Obama was on the side of terrorists

Writing about the Obama administration in June 2013, Crowley said it looked the Muslim Brotherhood was dictating American foreign policy.

"The Muslim Brotherhood is a sworn enemy of the United States. In Obama, they have found an ally. What does that say about Obama? I'm sure you can figure that one out," she wrote. "What it says about America's national security is that it looks increasingly like it's being dictated BY that sworn enemy."

Writing in a January 2009 blog post, Crowley singled out Obama for using his full name at his swearing in (presidents typically are sworn in using their full names) and decisions related to banning the use of torture and closing of the Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, detention center as actions that raised questions about the president's sympathies.

"Barack Obama insisted on being sworn in as president with his full name, Barack Hussein Obama. One of his very first things he did as president was to order the closure of the terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba," she wrote, without noting that Obama had campaigned on this issue, the facility had been a top concern for human rights defenders. "The two things he did along with that was to order a halt to the prosecutions of terrorist suspects there, including the mastermind of the September 11th attacks, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, and other top al Qaeda terrorists, like Ramzi Binalshibh. He also issued an order against the use of enhanced interrogation tactics on such terrorists, including waterboarding.

"Now comes word that he is granting his first formal television interview as president to Al-Arabiya," she added. "Tells you where his head is, and possibly, his sympathies. Just sayin'."

In February 2015, Crowley shared what she called an "important column," with the title "Obama's Two Faces of Islam." The column, written by author Bill Siegel and still available on the Internet Archive's Wayback Machine, argues that Obama is an "Islamic community organizer" and is "conforming US policy to Islam and Sharia."

"The administration, with Obama as Islamic community organizer, is not only placating Muslims and, in particular, our Islamic enemies; it is conforming US policy to Islam and Sharia," reads the column.

"Obama's actions may, however, actually betray a more nefarious strategy: do as little as politically possible so as to foment chaos across the region, all to the benefit of his seeming policy "companions" dedicated to promoting Sharia and Islamic statehood- the Muslim Brotherhood and the Islamic Republic of Iran- while defanging the US's best ally in the region, Israel. Despite public pressure, resist confronting ISIS/ISIL and Bashar Assad in any truly meaningful way and turn his back on the Christian genocide exploding across the region. In addition, flood the US with Muslim immigrants while keeping it bound to foreign oil despite remarkable innovations at home that can render it virtually energy independent."

Edinburg, Texas (CNN) - The Texas-born high school student who was detained by immigration officials for more than three weeks told CNN Thursday he was treated less than human at a US Customs and Border Protection facility.

Francisco Galicia, 18, says he was held in filthy, overcrowded conditions where he was not allowed to shower for 23 days, forced to sleep on a cement floor and not given enough food. By the time he was released Tuesday, after word spread about his detention following a report by The Dallas Morning News, he said he was malnourished, having dropped 26 pounds.

"They were not treating us humanely," Galicia told CNN during a wide-ranging interview. "...The stress was so high, they (detention center agents) were on me all the time. It was like psychological torture to the point where I almost (agreed to be deported). I felt safer to be in the cell than to be with the officers. "

'They threatened me with charges'

The problem began, he says, on June 27 while he was on his way to a college soccer scouting event.

He was traveling with his 17-year-old brother Marlon, as well as a group of friends, from his hometown of Edinburg to Houston when they were stopped at a CBP checkpoint in Falfurrias, about 100 miles north of the US-Mexico border.

Francisco Galicia was born in Texas, and he is an American citizen. As a child, he moved to Mexico with his family and later returned to the US as a teenager. He says he was carrying his state ID, a Social Security card and a wallet-sized birth certificate.

He also had a Mexican tourist visa with him that inaccurately listed his country of birth as Mexico, setting up a conflicting nationality claim, his attorney, Claudia Galan, said.

Both brothers were detained, and Marlon Galicia, who does not have legal status in the US, was retuned to Mexico. Francisco Galicia was sent to an immigration detention center.

"They didn't believe me. I kept telling them over and over, and they kept saying my documents were fake, and they were going to deport me," Galicia said. "...They threatened me with charges -- charges about falsifying documents. Felonies. They kept asking how it was possible for me to not know where I was from. I almost signed (to be deported) because I didn't want to suffer there anymore. "

US Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials declined a CNN request for comment on Galicia's allegations and pointed back to a joint ICE-CBP statement on Wednesday following the teen's release.

"This individual provided conflicting reports regarding status of citizenship after being apprehended by U.S. Border Patrol and transferred into Immigration and Customs Enforcement Custody," the statement said.

The statement continued, "Situations including conflicting reports from the individual and multiple birth certificates can, and should, take more time to verify. While we continue to research the facts of the situation, the individual has been released from ICE custody."

'You have no rights'

Galicia said he was not allowed to call his family or an attorney while he was detained.

"The moment I got there, we told them we have the right to a phone call and to a lawyer, and they told us, 'you have no rights,'" he said.

Galicia described squalid conditions in the facility where he was held, saying he was held in a small room with about 70 other people. There was one toilet, with no doors or wall.

Every few days, he said, he and those held with him were given wipes.

"It was to clean up but the dirt, but you couldn't get rid of it because so much time had passed since we showered," he said.

Galicia dismissed President Donald Trump's assertion that many of the people crossing the border are "bad actors," who mean to do harm to the US and its people. He said the people he met who were being held with him at the facility meant no harm.

"They just wanted to come for a better future. They were fleeing their countries because they were being threatened or kidnapped," he said.

Attorney says she was given the runaround

While Galicia was being held, an attorney retained by his family said she tried for a least a week to get in touch with the teen while he was being held but was given the runaround by CBP and ICE.

Galan says she tried in vain for at least a week to get in touch with Galicia while he was being held, but was given the runaround by Border Patrol.

"They told him he had no right to an attorney," Galan said. "Once I went to border patrol headquarters, they told me the same thing. ... They said that I couldn't get any information until he consented, but he didn't even know I was trying to get him out."

Galan has said she shared documents two weeks ago with CBP proving Galicia was a US citizen -- including a birth certificate showing he was born in Dallas.

Despite the documentation, the attorney said, Galicia was transferred on Saturday to ICE custody for removal proceedings. He was held in the South Texas Detention Complex in Pearsall until his release Tuesday.

By the time he was released, he had been detained for 27 days: one day at the border patrol checkpoint, 23 days at the Falfurrias processing center and three days in Pearsall.

'I am the eyes and the ears of what's happening'

Galicia showed CNN pieces of paper that he said contained phone numbers of the families of those held with him.

"They asked me to reach out to them to let them know that they're OK. They didn't want me to tell them about the conditions in the detention centers -- they only wanted me to tell them that they were OK," he said.

"...Right now, I'm in a place where I can help those who are still in there -- so people can see how they're treated, and change the way they're treated. I am the eyes and ears of what's happening in there. I can talk. They can't do what I'm doing. "

Galicia says he doesn't know if he will take legal action against the CBP, but he does want a measure of justice.

He said he remains a positive person despite being treated so badly.

"It's made me stronger," he said. "I see life differently after seeing how other people have been suffering. It's made me understand many things like how you can live your life while others are suffering."

Washington (CNN) - Hundreds of red flags were raised internally within the Trump administration about how families were being separated at the US-Mexico border, including some from months before the controversial "zero tolerance" policy was announced, according to documents reviewed by CNN.

The documents include anecdotes of children allegedly blindsided when they were separated from their parents after being apprehended at the southern border. One referral received by the Department of Homeland Security's Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties describes a 14-year-old who said he was separated from his father in May 2018 "after a meal break while in custody, and was told by officers that his father would be deported."

In another, an 11-year-old stated that he "was called aside by an officer and then he did not see his father again." A 10-year-old with "poor communication skills" was allegedly separated from his mother in June 2018.

Taken together, the documents provide a rare glimpse into how one part of the Trump administration -- the Department of Health and Human Services -- was flagging cases of concern to another part -- the Department of Homeland Security -- during a tumultuous time that eventually resulted in the separation of thousands of families apprehended at the southern border.

HHS' Office of Refugee Resettlement, which is charged with the care of unaccompanied migrant children, instructed staff to submit significant incident reports for alleged cases of family separation once the agency started seeing an uptick in cases, according to the agency.

The refugee agency was unaware of the "zero tolerance" separation policy prior to its public announcement in April 2018, and the reports were submitted as incidents of abuse in Homeland Security custody and sent to DHS' Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, an agency official said. The zero tolerance policy was officially implemented in May and ended in June after a public outcry.

A separation would typically occur under the pretense that there was a significant incident with a family member, such as abuse or neglect, that would prompt an incident report.

The procedure continued during zero tolerance. The civil rights office receives regular referrals from the refugee office on any complaint that might result from any process within Homeland Security, the refugee official said.

The DHS' civil rights office, which received the referrals, "reviews and investigates civil rights and civil liberties complaints filed by the public" regarding the department's policies and activities.

850 referrals

Of the 850 referrals to the civil rights office of family separation between January 2018 and June 2018, the overwhelming majority are from HHS' Office of Refugee Resettlement. Others are from immigrant advocacy groups.

Twelve children who were 1-year-old or younger were allegedly separated between December 2017 and May 2018, according to the documents.

More than 100 referrals sent to DHS' civil rights office predate the announcement of the controversial policy, according to the documents. Some cite criminal history or prior immigration violations of the parents or guardians.

There is a long-standing policy that allows immigration officials to separate a child from a parent if there are concerns for the child's welfare.

Other referrals included in the documents are hazier. In February 2018, for example, the Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties received email correspondence from an individual on behalf of a 13-year-old who was also allegedly separated from his mother in December 2017, though the basis of the separation was unclear.

House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler cited the documents detailing alleged family separations that were obtained by the committee during a panel hearing.

"These documents are startling," he said.

"Even more surprising, the 12 children under the age of 1, nine of those separations occurred before the Trump administration enacted the zero tolerance policy. In many cases, family separation happened without warning and without giving the children the chance to say goodbye to their families. Many were not told where their families were being taken," the New York Democrat added.

The referrals do not explain how a case was resolved.

Watchdog reports

Administration watchdog reports have identified numerous problems in how agencies were monitoring and handling family separations.

In the summer of 2017, Office of Refugee Resettlement staff noticed a spike in the proportion of separated children relative to other unaccompanied children, according to a Health and Human Services inspector general report released in January.

Staff at the refugee agency developed mechanisms to track separations due to operational concerns, according to the report. Younger children, for example, require placement in specially licensed facilities.

Homeland Security had previously said that separations continue to take place in cases when the parents have a criminal history or medical concerns. The department, however, was inconsistent in explaining how many children were separated or what happened to them, according to the report.

"In some cases DHS has provided HHS with limited information about the reasons for these separations," said Ann Maxwell, Assistant Inspector General for Evaluation and Inspections, in January.

"More children over a longer period of time were separated by immigration authorities and were referred to HHS for care than is commonly discussed in the public debate," Maxwell said. "How many more children were separated is unknown."

Last October, a Homeland Security inspector general report also found that the department was "not fully prepared" for the rollout of the Trump administration's "zero tolerance" policy at the US-Mexico border and that it provided "inconsistent information," which led some parents to not understand that they would be separated from their children and unable to communicate with them.

Court orders in an ongoing lawsuit over family separations have forced officials to identify and reunify a majority of those separated.

During a House Oversight Committee hearing last week, Acting Homeland Security Secretary Kevin McAleenan said he would "go back and redo" the zero-tolerance policy if he could, saying the policy played a role in the department losing the public's trust.

McAleenan also said fewer than 1,000 children have been separated from their parents at the southern border this fiscal year. The department has also warned of individuals posing as families to gain entry into the US.

This story has been updated.

(CNN) - A family is skittish about speaking Spanish at the supermarket. A mother is afraid to let her daughter play outside. A father worries his toddler is now a target.

CNN recently asked immigrants how they feel about President Trump's racist remarks, the fight to add a citizenship question to the US Census and the threat of ICE raids. Many of their responses share a common thread.

Immigrant parents, many of whom are living legally in the United States, opened up about their fears. They say they're growing increasingly worried about their US citizen children's futures and aren't sure how to protect them.

Some say Trump's highly publicized immigration crackdowns and his comments demonizing immigrants and their families have heightened anxieties that were already haunting them. Others say they're now grappling with a new reality they don't know how to face.

Here are some of their stories.

He's worried a school shooter could target his youngest daughter. She's 2

Jorge Chepote knows he's going to have to prepare his 2-year-old daughter for a world that's harsher than she realizes. He's not sure he knows how.

Right now, she goes to a St. Louis daycare where many international families send their children. But she'll have to switch schools in a few years, and the 49-year-old business executive is worried that once she's in a less diverse environment she'll be bullied for coming from an immigrant family.

Or even worse, that a school shooter could put her in his crosshairs.

"We have Muslims targeted, we have African Americans targeted, we have seen Jews targeted. Now I see that any type of immigrant is going to become more of a target. I don't think Trump necessarily is supporting that stuff, but it's the environment he's creating, and to an extent, the unintended consequences of the environment he has created," Chepote says. "I have talked with my wife. What should we do about that? Should we revisit public schools? Consider home schooling or something? That is something that we do worry about."

Chepote says his job brought him to the United States from Peru 13 years ago. He's proud to be a US citizen. But he says since the 2016 election, the country he loves has changed and he feels he must speak out to help his children before it's too late. Many immigrants like him, he says, hear ominous echoes in President Trump's words.

"In the country where I come from there's also been racism like this in the past. It's like a virus. It's like wildfire," he says. "Once it starts, it's very difficult to stop it. ... We still have a chance."

She fears someone will call the police on her family while they're shopping

An 11-year-old walked into her mother's bedroom last week with a question.

"Did you see people that look like me are being separated and put in jail?" she asked.

So the 39-year-old mother -- who was born in the Dominican Republic, immigrated to the United States 30 years ago and became a naturalized US citizen when she was serving in the US military -- had a heartbreaking conversation with her daughter. She described it to CNN but asked to remain anonymous because she's a government contractor and fears she could lose her job for speaking out.

The mother, who lives in New Jersey, says she went through details with her daughter about the situation at the border, Trump's racist tweets, ICE raids and the citizenship question on the census.

"She was very upset. My kids speak Spanish. They travel to the Dominican Republic. They know this is not right. I make sure they go to the library, read a lot of history books. They studied the Holocaust," she tells CNN.

It wasn't the first time this mother faced such issues with her children.

A year ago, she confronted a parent whose son had told another daughter she was going to get deported.

"I told him, 'Your son is bullying my daughter ... My daughter isn't going anywhere, she's as American as your son.'"

Since Trump was elected, the mother says she doesn't feel safe for her kids anymore.

"We have a 14-year-old son that is brown-skinned, although my husband is Italian American. My husband and I do not feel safe letting our son ride a bike alone in our neighborhood, in case someone wants to call the cops on him. So we are hyper vigilant," she says. "When my kids are riding their bicycles where I can't see them, in case the cops stop them, I tell 'say your name and address, and say you want your parents because you're minors. Don't answer any question.' I make them repeat that every day, every time they go out."

Before Trump took office, she says she didn't see this much hostility.

Back then, she says, she could be at the supermarket and not fear about someone calling the cops on her family.

Now, when she goes to a store or a restaurant with her family, she brings three or four types of identification, she says. "ICE tried to deport a veteran that is Hispanic and who has an American passport," she says. "The same could happen to me."

A classmate once told her kids to 'go back' to where they came from

Tania Bravo Groe couldn't believe her ears when her kids told her what someone said to them at school: "Go back to where you crossed the river."

That was in 2015, and the Peruvian-born woman, a naturalized American citizen, had recently moved with her husband, a retired US army officer, to his hometown of Lake Mills, Iowa.

"Obviously I got angry, because my husband is a retired US Army officer and for that reason we'd moved a few times during his active-duty military career and NEVER in all the places we lived (did my kids get) attacked in that way. Never," Bravo Groe tells CNN. "Since that happened, I always ask them, 'Let me know if it happens again, I'll talk to the school, the principal.'"

At the time, she didn't take any action, or try to talk to the kid's parents. But the episode left a scar that's difficult to heal. Despite having been in the States for almost 21 years, Bravo Groe says she's never felt as insecure as now, both for herself and for her children: Alessandra Groe, 18, a student at Iowa State University, and Anthony Groe, 16, still in high school.

"As a precaution, I carry in my wallet the photocopy of my US passport in case I get stopped. I never used to do that, but you never know, you might be stopped for racial profiling," she says.

When she talks to her daughter, Bravo Groe warns her and her friends to carry a copy of their passports. They might encounter people "who are coming out of the closet now with their hate and racism," she says.

Her kids speak Spanish to each other. They're fluent. She speaks to them in Spanish, too. But now, after Trump's racist tweets, Bravo Groe believes things are spinning out of control:

"I'm really concerned about the news. I need to remind my kids that what happened to them back in 2015, the president is now saying the same things in public," she says. "If the president thinks that a congresswoman needs to go back, can you imagine all the people that voted for him? Do I need to go back because I'm the same as that congresswoman, a naturalized citizen?"

Bravo Groe says she's concerned about speaking Spanish to her kids in the supermarket. "Sometimes I feel I shouldn't. I don't wanna be yelled at, 'speak English, we're in America,'" she says. "I'm scared my kids are gonna get bullied if they speak Spanish in school."

She wishes she could take her daughter to Disney. Instead, she takes her to work

The 4-year-old girl talks about princesses all the time. She wants to meet Mickey Mouse and Jasmine from "Aladdin." But her mother, a 25-year-old undocumented Jamaican immigrant in New York City, says she knows traveling to Disney World would be too risky.

Most days, she thinks even playing outside with her toddler is too dangerous. Afraid of the possibility of immigration raids, the housekeeper and receptionist said she's started bringing her daughter to work more often to protect her. Living as an undocumented immigrant in the United States, she says, feels like living in a horror movie.

"The word 'ICE' in our community just sends us all into panic," she says. "I'm not able to do normal outdoor activities with my daughter, such as playing in the park, going to the library, even going for her doctor's visit, because of the fear I have of it being my last day with her in America."

The woman shared her story with CNN but asked to remain anonymous, afraid that publishing her name could make her a target of immigration authorities and leave her child without a mother to care for her.

She says her parents brought her to the United States when she was 17, fleeing from violence in Jamaica after her brother was kidnapped. Their house there has burned down. Now, she says, America is the only home they have.

It is a place where she's learned to survive, and the place where her 4-year-old daughter was born. But it's also a place where daily life fills her with dread. She says Trump's recent comments telling four congresswomen to "go back to where they came from" were a reminder that someday she will need to help her daughter deal with racism, too.

But right now she's facing something more pressing: a day she fears will inevitably come.

"I tried to make preparations for her just in case I'm not here, to leave enough money," she says. "I don't know what would happen to her."

She fears someone will strip away her kids' citizenship

Katalina Thomas was shaken by a sinking feeling at a moment when she should have been thrilled. Her aunt had surprised her with plane tickets for a family reunion. But Thomas says she was scared to go.

The United States, where she was born but her kids were not, seemed to be transforming into someplace unrecognizable -- a place where she was worried about her children's safety and afraid to speak Spanish in public.

Thomas is from Texas. She's the daughter of a Cuban refugee. Her husband and two children were born in Spain, where their family now lives. Her children are US citizens, but Thomas worries that's something the US government could try to strip away, even though the administration hasn't proposed such a move.

"I want them to have the opportunity to do everything they want in the world. There are these stories about people getting deported to countries that they don't remember and don't speak the language of. At the moment, they don't seem to be arbitrarily ripping citizenship from people, but there have been some court decisions," she says. "Your citizenship shouldn't be able to be taken away. ... It's concerning that those kinds of policies can change."

Thomas says she didn't sleep at all the night before they flew to the United States for the family reunion. She stayed up, pulling together all their documents in case US border authorities gave them any trouble.

"I didn't want to not have something that we needed, to prove that we were a family, to prove that we were citizens. ... It made me question my identity a lot," she says. "It's somewhere that I don't feel like my family's welcome. The simple act of going back for a family reunion to visit my family, to spend Christmas and things, was something I was dreading because I didn't know what could happen."

She's trying to protect her kids by hiding her fears

A mother in New York says she worries constantly about a question she doesn't know how to answer: What am I going to do?

Since an earthquake devastated Haiti in 2010, the 41-year-old security guard has been living legally in the United States, protected from deportation by a government policy the Trump administration has been trying to end.

So far, a federal court has temporarily blocked that move, but she worries any day it could end and her children -- a 7-year-old and a 9-year-old who were both born in the United States -- could lose the only life they've known. She shared her family's story with CNN but asked to remain anonymous because she fears speaking out could affect her immigration status.

It's impossible for her to imagine her children being forced to live a life in a country where they don't even speak the language. The thought of having to leave them behind is even tougher. She hasn't told them about the fear that's taken hold of her life since Trump became president.

"I don't want them to be really scared or think one time their mom's not going to be here anymore," she says.

She says Trump's recent comments have made her worry more than ever that her family is at risk.

"Thinking about this every day is really disturbing...this is the lowest I've ever been before," she says. "I've been in this country. I used to hear it from other people, but not from someone who was in power, who's supposed to teach people about diversity, including everybody ... It's just barbaric when you hear those things."

(CNN) - An Iowa man has been arrested by federal agents after he threatened to kill Jews in hate-filled phone calls and emails, according to court documents.

Garrett Kelsey, 31, admitted in a voluntary interview to calling and emailing a Jewish organization with messages full of anti-Semitic and racist language, the documents said. He was arraigned on Tuesday in a federal court in Iowa on charges of making interstate threats.

Kelsey was apparently upset about a video regarding Nordic neo-Nazis that the group had posted, the affidavit said.

"My people have f***ing slaughtered your f***ing people before and we will do it again. And right now, you are giving us incentive to do that. ... Filthy f***ing Jews," Kelsey said in a message to a Jewish organization based in New York, according to court documents.

Kelsey's profanity-laced email to an employee warned the group had three days to remove the video or "we will be taking action against your organization full of degenerates," the affidavit said. The Cedar Rapids resident also wrote that "everywhere Jews go in the world they cause trouble."

A Special Agent with the Joint Terrorism Task Force of the FBI who helped investigate the case detailed in the affidavit Kelsey's social media trail, which includes blatant use of anti-Semitic and racist language and Neo-Nazi tropes.

A week after the voluntary interview with authorities, the agent says Kelsey changed his now-deleted Facebook cover photo to one that depicts people lined up facing a wall with their hands up, according to the agent. The photo shows Jewish residents in a Warsaw, Poland, ghetto before being transferred to concentration camps, according to the agent.

Kelsey used the Facebook account to leave a message on the page of the group "Iowa Antifa" in which he threatened that, if he saw any of them, he would "bash your skulls in without warning!" according to court documents.

He then wrote "white is might!! 1488!!" according to court documents. 1488 is a Neo-Nazi reference: the 14 refers to the "14 Words" of a popular white supremacist slogan, and "88" refers to "Heil Hitler" (H is the 8th letter in the alphabet).

Kelsey was arrested and arraigned in Iowa and is scheduled to be in court for another hearing on Thursday, his public defender Christopher J. Nathan told CNN. Nathan would not comment further on the case. The case is expected to be transferred to New York for prosecution, according to prosecutors in Iowa.

Manhattan US Attorney Geoffrey S. Berman said in a statement that the profanity-laced threats are "not protected speech."

FBI Assistant Director William F. Sweeney Jr. appeared to agree.

"The FBI will always follow threats that cross the line of free speech and threaten the safety of individuals and groups, especially when those threats are based on a religion or race," Sweeney Jr. said in a statement. "The fact that Mr. Kelsey allegedly continued his threatening behavior even after being informed that his previous actions were not protected speech makes his actions more abhorrent."

I’d made my own preposterous suggestion on the phone to the then Conservative celebrity-MP for Henley in the autumn of 2002.

After a few minutes of cajoling and gentle persuasion he relented and changed his mind. “OK, I’ll fight you,” said Johnson. “But you’ll have to promise not to break my nose.” I did, of course. Promise, I mean. Not break his nose.

I had been recruited to take part in a televised bout of “celebrity boxing”, live on BBC Two.

In the end, the British Boxing Board of Control had more sense than I and, for a fleeting moment, Johnson had at the time. The boxing authorities judged that a high-profile fight between two barely trained middle-aged amateurs might be “reckless and irresponsible”. The “fight” was cancelled.

Johnson had pulled out by then, in any case. Not through any lack of “bottle”. Everything I have seen, heard or read about the UK’s new leader suggests no great fear of physical or, for that matter, political or social risk.

He clearly likes the idea of himself as a bit of a battler, not one to retreat from a scrap.

“Man or mouse?”, he is fond of saying before some sudden boyish challenge to a friend or colleague - a game of “whiff-whaff” [ping-pong] on the table in his office, or a quick competitive sprint.

In an interview with the Daily Mail recently, he gave his favourite quote as: “It’s not the size of the dog in the fight, it’s the size of the fight in the dog.”

Nor did I detect then, or since, any conventional instinct to protect his dignity. Just the opposite. We had invited Johnson precisely because he cared so little for that. But he did, I think, feel it might seem a little ridiculous, even for him, to risk his profile in such a way before a live audience of millions, even for charity.

Incidentally, much later, as London Mayor, Johnson was said to have demonstrated his martial instincts by physically battling in a meeting room with David Cameron, like two overgrown schoolboys, for possession of a Treasury note setting out the available funds for transport in London.

Afterwards, as Andrew Gimson records in his biography of Johnson, both men claimed victory. We’ll never know the truth. It was, though, another glimpse into the deep rivalry underlying the outwardly friendly relationship between the pair.

At an uncertain and unstable time for British politics, for the economy and for the country’s place in the world, Conservative Party members have chosen a leader who defies almost every norm.

Any objective assessment of Johnson’s record, judgement and character throws up one perfectly legitimate doubt after another.

Yet his ability to connect with people (though not everyone and not all the time), to make them feel good about themselves and about him, is simply unique in public life. Whether at a feel-good time of national optimism, or, as now, a time of bitter division and much pessimism, it has turned out to be a gift which has helped carry him into Downing Street.

More than any of this, even though Boris Johnson’s depth of character may be little trusted by his critics and by quite a few of his supporters too, he made himself the leadership candidate most trusted by the deeply Eurosceptic Tory “selectorate” to deliver Brexit as promised and on time, on 31 October 2019.

At the time of writing, the most reliable verdict on that pledge is still: “We’ll see.”

So why Boris Johnson? And who exactly is he?

The first thing to note is that he is not actually Boris at all, despite the rare distinction in politics of being known universally by that single name.

He was born Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson on 19 June 1964. He chose to be called Boris and his family, friends and eventually everyone else have amiably obliged him.

For one so stereotypically English, his ancestry is surprisingly varied - a mixture of English Christians, Turkish Muslims and Eastern European Jews. His maternal great-grandfather was an Orthodox Lithuanian rabbi. His paternal great-grandfather was a Turkish political activist, Ali Kemal, who was apparently lynched after falling foul of the nationalists then in power. Boris, Sonia Purnell records in her biography, was the name of a Russian emigre friend of the family.

Johnson was born in New York City, and spent his earliest days with father Stanley and mother Charlotte in a home opposite the famous Chelsea Hotel, hangout of many famous rock stars of the time.

His father began a master’s degree in agricultural economics, and after what he has reportedly hinted to be an unsuccessful attempt to recruit him as a spy (undergoing “the most intensive training in clandestine techniques known to man”) he worked briefly for the World Bank in Washington DC, before he was sacked.

Apparently, being perhaps something of a block off the old chip, he submitted a suggestion for a $100m loan to build three pyramids and a sphinx to help the Egyptian tourist effort. It was an April Fool joke. His employers were not amused.

Back in the UK, Stanley and Charlotte raised a family: a daughter, Rachel, who recently joined the Liberal Democrats before defecting to the then Independent Group as a candidate for the European Parliament (more successful as a journalist than as a politician); Leo who did well in finance, and Jo, who worked in Downing Street as a policy thinker under David Cameron, and became a respected minister under Cameron and Theresa May. The siblings were ferociously competitive. Stanley’s ambition was to raise a journalistic and political dynasty, and he did.

Young Boris was at Eton, and the family living in Brussels, when his parents split. He doesn’t like to speak of that time, or its effect on him, but it was painful. Charlotte - a celebrated artist - subsequently suffered a serious mental breakdown and spent nine months as a patient in a psychiatric hospital.

So Boris Johnson’s early life cannot be described as easy, or pain-free. His now famous amiable, bumbling persona - a close copy of his father’s - has sometimes been described as a defence mechanism, concealing a sharp brain and a fine but well-disguised instinct for personal advantage.

At any rate, after a spell at Ashdown House boarding school, Johnson went to Eton with an academically prestigious King’s Scholarship. He became a contemporary of, among others, David Cameron - and a close friend to then Viscount Althorp (now Earl Spencer), brother to Princess Diana, and Darius Guppy who was later to be jailed for five years for fraud.

BBC
The young man
The journalist
The celebrity
The contender
Boris Johnson's battles
by John Pienaar


Boris Johnson is to be the UK’s new prime minister.

What drove him to the top?
“I’m not going to fight you,” Boris Johnson told me, after a moment’s silence. “You’re huge!”
I’d made my own preposterous suggestion on the phone to the then Conservative celebrity-MP for Henley in the autumn of 2002.

After a few minutes of cajoling and gentle persuasion he relented and changed his mind. “OK, I’ll fight you,” said Johnson. “But you’ll have to promise not to break my nose.” I did, of course. Promise, I mean. Not break his nose.

I had been recruited to take part in a televised bout of “celebrity boxing”, live on BBC Two.

In the end, the British Boxing Board of Control had more sense than I and, for a fleeting moment, Johnson had at the time. The boxing authorities judged that a high-profile fight between two barely trained middle-aged amateurs might be “reckless and irresponsible”. The “fight” was cancelled.

Johnson had pulled out by then, in any case. Not through any lack of “bottle”. Everything I have seen, heard or read about the UK’s new leader suggests no great fear of physical or, for that matter, political or social risk.

He clearly likes the idea of himself as a bit of a battler, not one to retreat from a scrap.

“Man or mouse?”, he is fond of saying before some sudden boyish challenge to a friend or colleague - a game of “whiff-whaff” [ping-pong] on the table in his office, or a quick competitive sprint.

In an interview with the Daily Mail recently, he gave his favourite quote as: “It’s not the size of the dog in the fight, it’s the size of the fight in the dog.”

Nor did I detect then, or since, any conventional instinct to protect his dignity. Just the opposite. We had invited Johnson precisely because he cared so little for that. But he did, I think, feel it might seem a little ridiculous, even for him, to risk his profile in such a way before a live audience of millions, even for charity.

Incidentally, much later, as London Mayor, Johnson was said to have demonstrated his martial instincts by physically battling in a meeting room with David Cameron, like two overgrown schoolboys, for possession of a Treasury note setting out the available funds for transport in London.

Afterwards, as Andrew Gimson records in his biography of Johnson, both men claimed victory. We’ll never know the truth. It was, though, another glimpse into the deep rivalry underlying the outwardly friendly relationship between the pair.

At an uncertain and unstable time for British politics, for the economy and for the country’s place in the world, Conservative Party members have chosen a leader who defies almost every norm.

Any objective assessment of Johnson’s record, judgement and character throws up one perfectly legitimate doubt after another.

Yet his ability to connect with people (though not everyone and not all the time), to make them feel good about themselves and about him, is simply unique in public life. Whether at a feel-good time of national optimism, or, as now, a time of bitter division and much pessimism, it has turned out to be a gift which has helped carry him into Downing Street.

More than any of this, even though Boris Johnson’s depth of character may be little trusted by his critics and by quite a few of his supporters too, he made himself the leadership candidate most trusted by the deeply Eurosceptic Tory “selectorate” to deliver Brexit as promised and on time, on 31 October 2019.

At the time of writing, the most reliable verdict on that pledge is still: “We’ll see.”

So why Boris Johnson? And who exactly is he?



The
young
man
Boris is pretty impressive when success can be achieved by pure intelligence, unaccompanied by hard work
School report
The first thing to note is that he is not actually Boris at all, despite the rare distinction in politics of being known universally by that single name.

He was born Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson on 19 June 1964. He chose to be called Boris and his family, friends and eventually everyone else have amiably obliged him.

For one so stereotypically English, his ancestry is surprisingly varied - a mixture of English Christians, Turkish Muslims and Eastern European Jews. His maternal great-grandfather was an Orthodox Lithuanian rabbi. His paternal great-grandfather was a Turkish political activist, Ali Kemal, who was apparently lynched after falling foul of the nationalists then in power. Boris, Sonia Purnell records in her biography, was the name of a Russian emigre friend of the family.

Johnson was born in New York City, and spent his earliest days with father Stanley and mother Charlotte in a home opposite the famous Chelsea Hotel, hangout of many famous rock stars of the time.

His father began a master’s degree in agricultural economics, and after what he has reportedly hinted to be an unsuccessful attempt to recruit him as a spy (undergoing “the most intensive training in clandestine techniques known to man”) he worked briefly for the World Bank in Washington DC, before he was sacked.

Apparently, being perhaps something of a block off the old chip, he submitted a suggestion for a $100m loan to build three pyramids and a sphinx to help the Egyptian tourist effort. It was an April Fool joke. His employers were not amused.

Back in the UK, Stanley and Charlotte raised a family: a daughter, Rachel, who recently joined the Liberal Democrats before defecting to the then Independent Group as a candidate for the European Parliament (more successful as a journalist than as a politician); Leo who did well in finance, and Jo, who worked in Downing Street as a policy thinker under David Cameron, and became a respected minister under Cameron and Theresa May. The siblings were ferociously competitive. Stanley’s ambition was to raise a journalistic and political dynasty, and he did.

Young Boris was at Eton, and the family living in Brussels, when his parents split. He doesn’t like to speak of that time, or its effect on him, but it was painful. Charlotte - a celebrated artist - subsequently suffered a serious mental breakdown and spent nine months as a patient in a psychiatric hospital.

So Boris Johnson’s early life cannot be described as easy, or pain-free. His now famous amiable, bumbling persona - a close copy of his father’s - has sometimes been described as a defence mechanism, concealing a sharp brain and a fine but well-disguised instinct for personal advantage.

At any rate, after a spell at Ashdown House boarding school, Johnson went to Eton with an academically prestigious King’s Scholarship. He became a contemporary of, among others, David Cameron - and a close friend to then Viscount Althorp (now Earl Spencer), brother to Princess Diana, and Darius Guppy who was later to be jailed for five years for fraud.



Alexander Boris de Pfeffel Johnson, King's Scholar at Eton

At Eton, AB Johnson became  “Boris” - rather posh, very English, somewhat eccentric and the deeply distinctive, deliberately dishevelled character we know now.

He was also very clever - “brilliant” according to one teacher - and endowed with what has arguably become a strong sense of entitlement to both make up and play by his own rules.

He was a formidable debater, and became adept at deflecting awkward questions with non-committal answers (as any journalist who has interviewed him can testify).

The report from his housemaster makes interesting reading now. He wrote of Boris to his father: “I think he honestly believes it is churlish of us not to regard him as an exception - one who should be free of the network of obligations which binds everyone else. Boris is pretty impressive when success can be achieved by pure intelligence, unaccompanied by hard work.”

His character - clever, capable of achieving impressive results though always very much on his own terms - was forming. Future opponent Ken Livingstone wrote an attack on public schools while Johnson was a pupil.

He wrote a reply in the school newspaper, recounted in Purnell’s biography, dismissing his future adversary’s arguments as “twaddle, utter bunkum, balderdash, tommyrot, piffle and fiddlesticks”. His distinctive vocabulary seemed to be forming too.

CNN) - Doctors have long mulled over using low doses of the hormone testosterone as a way to improve sexual function in some women, but evidence on its safety and efficacy has been somewhat lacking -- until now.

A paper published in the journal The Lancet on Thursday found testosterone to be effective for postmenopausal women with low sexual desire, and the treatment was safer when administered as a skin patch or cream, rather than orally.

Researchers reviewed 46 previously published reports of 36 randomized controlled trials involving testosterone treatment that were completed between 1990 and 2018. The researchers took a close look at how testosterone affected sexual function, cognitive measures, cholesterol and other health outcomes in the trials, which included 8,480 women ages 18 to 75.

The researchers wrote in the new paper that their review provides "robust support" for a clinical trial of testosterone treatment to be conducted in postmenopausal women.

"Further research is needed to clarify the effects of testosterone treatment in premenopausal women and the effects on musculoskeletal and cognitive health and long-term safety," they wrote.

The researchers found that, compared with a placebo or another hormone treatment such as estrogen, taking testosterone for at least 12 weeks significantly increased sexual desire, pleasure, arousal, orgasm, responsiveness, self-image and the frequency of satisfactory sexual events in postmenopausal women.

The data from those previous reports also showed that testosterone significantly reduced reported sexual concerns and distress among the women when compared with a placebo or another form of hormone treatment. As for premenopausal women, the only observed benefit in the data was a reduction in sexually associated personal distress seen in one small study.

When examining the various ways testosterone could be administered, the researchers found that a significant rise in "bad" LDL cholesterol -- and reductions in total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol and triglycerides -- was seen when testosterone was administered orally but not as a skin patch or cream.

There was also an overall increase in weight found with testosterone treatment, along with acne and hair growth, but "no serious adverse events were recorded," the researchers found.

'Not the magic bullet for everybody'

The new paper had some limitations, including that much of the data on sexual function was self-reported and that the definition of sexual dysfunction was not consistent across the previously published studies.

"Those of us from the sexual medicine world have been using testosterone for women off-label for a very long time, appreciating the fact that while there has been no FDA-approved testosterone for women, we have very good data to show that it is safe and it is effective in some women," said Dr. Lauren Streicher, a clinical professor at Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine and medical director of the Northwestern Medicine Center for Sexual Medicine and Menopause in Chicago, who was not involved in the new paper.

Yet testosterone is just "part of our toolbox" when it comes to treating sexual dysfunction in women, said Streicher, author of the book "Sex Rx: Hormones, Health and Your Best Sex Ever."

"Our toolbox has a lot of things in it, including talk therapy and different medications, and we welcome the idea that testosterone is going to continue to be part of our toolbox," Streicher said.

"It's certainly not the magic bullet for everybody, and even when it does work, it's generally in conjunction with things such as talk therapy," she said. After all, "libido is very complicated because it is so multifactorial. So when you look at all of the things that impact libido, it's never one thing: It's hormones; it's neurotransmitters; it's relationship; it's cultural norms; it's past experience. The list is extremely long."

In general, "there is a lot of debate among doctors" about whether adding testosterone to hormone replacement therapy for women helps them feel better and is safe, Channa Jayasena, a clinical senior lecturer at Imperial College London in England, said in a statement distributed by the Science Media Centre in the UK. He was not involved in the new paper.

"Traditional" hormone replacement therapy, or HRT, containing estrogen has "well-known benefits" for improving sexual function in menopausal women, he said.

"The message is that oestrogen-containing HRT should still be the treatment of choice for almost all menopausal women," Jayasena said. "However, testosterone could be added to HRT when menopausal women have sexual symptoms which are persistent."

'An urgent need ... to ensure gender equality'

More research is needed when it comes to testosterone for women, Dr. Rossella Nappi, of the IRCCS San Matteo Foundation and the University of Pavia in Italy, wrote in an editorial that accompanied the new paper.

"Many testosterone formulations are available to improve measures of sexual wellbeing including low sex drive and poor sexual function. However, currently, these compounds are available only as male formulations and their safety or adverse events, as well as their effect on general aspects of women's health, remain controversial because of scant published data," Nappi wrote.

Notwithstanding the new paper, additional research should look into the therapeutic role of testosterone for women through studies on the benefits and risks, she wrote: "In particular, there is an urgent need in the area of sexual medicine to ensure gender equality in treating effectively those women with female sexual dysfunction."

Editor's Note: Peggy Drexler is a research psychologist and the author of "Our Fathers, Ourselves: Daughters, Fathers, and the Changing American Family" and "Raising Boys Without Men." She is at work on a book about how women are conditioned to compete with one another and what to do about it. The opinions expressed in this commentary are hers. View more opinion on CNN.

(CNN) - Actress Valerie Harper, perhaps most famous for her sidekick role on "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" and later her own spinoff about her character, "Rhoda," has been engaged in a years-long battle with brain cancer, and this week her husband, Tony Cacciotti, announced that doctors have recommended hospice care, which is offered at end of life.

Cacciotti wrote on Facebook that he could not agree because, he implied, that was the loving choice.

"I have been told by doctors to put Val in Hospice care and I can't [because of our 40 years of shared commitment to each other] and I won't because of the amazing good deeds she has graced us with while she's been here on earth," he wrote.

But he also hinted at his own struggles in saying goodbye. "For those of you who have been in this position, you will totally understand that 'it's hard letting go,' " he went on. "So as long as I'm able and capable, I'll be where I belong right beside her."

Very few of us will get through life without having to face a loved one's death. And chances are good someone else in our lives will have an opinion on how we handed the situation: Were we too emotional? Not emotional enough? Did we do "all we could"? Even those who get by without others' judgment can feel it from themselves. How many times have we heard someone say, after the fact, that they handled death "wrong"? As in, "I should have been there more" or "I should have said/done/been this"?

Keeping in mind that none of us can truly know what's going on in the household or marriage of another, those with a clear view of Cacciotti's situation may suggest that by denying his wife hospice -- which often involves nursing care and assistance in relieving pain -- however unintentionally, he may not be doing the the most loving thing.

Hospice, after all, isn't about sending someone away to die alone, the colder option for the unattached, as he seems to be saying (for one thing, home hospice exists). The spouse, partner, family members do not "go away" in hospice.

It is not abandonment. Far from it. Rather it's an acknowledgment, determined by a doctor, that the end is near and that treatments to forestall it will not work or will impair the quality of the patient's remaining days. It is about providing dying people -- usually those who a doctor thinks will live less than six months -- comfort and services to make the transition to death easier and less painful. It's not some kind of "sentence": If the prognosis changes or if a patient changes his or her mind about hospice, generally, treatments can resume.

Depending on what hospice care is being proffered to Harper, it may involve in-home care -- often a blessing for a caregiver who simply needs a little time away to tend to other life matters -- and counseling for loved ones. And it may include the option or suggestion of a hospital setting.

It is possible that Cacciotti's own admission "it's hard letting go" indicates a somewhat clouded judgment of what's actually best for his wife.

At the same time, while it's easy to judge Cacciotti's decision, it's very easy to understand it. How we handle another's death is about us, never more so than when it's up to us to make a call between life or death.

Death is very personal and very powerful.

It leads us to a reflection on our own lives, our own mortality, and that can be overwhelming for many, particularly those who are caring for someone at the end. Many people don't grieve; many people can't stop.

But it is worth considering: Is being with a loved one -- who may or may not, by then, even know your presence -- worth years of your own suffering as you sort through the choices you made under the duress of looming death?

As emotionally wrenching as it is to face the end, is forgoing attentive end-of-life care really the best thing for your loved one?

(CNN) - Three white University of Mississippi students were suspended from their fraternity after a photo showing them posing with guns in front of a sign memorializing Emmett Till surfaced earlier this week.

The Justice Department's Civil Rights Division is also reportedly investigating.

The students in the photo, obtained by the Mississippi Center for Investigative Reporting and ProPublica, were standing beside the sign outside Glendora, Mississippi, near the site where the African American 14-year-old's body was pulled from the Tallahatchie River in 1955 after he was tortured and killed.

The sign appears to be riddled with bullet holes, but it's unclear whether the students were connected to the damage.

The image was posted to the private Instagram account of one of the students in March, with the message "one of Memphis's finest and the worst influence I've ever met," the news outlets reported.

CNN is not identifying the students while we attempt to reach them for comment.

School officials knew about the photo since March

Jesse Lyons, a spokesman for Kappa Alpha, said the students were suspended Wednesday after the chapter's leadership was made aware of the photo the night before.

"The making of the photo was unrelated to any event or activity of our chapter," the fraternity's Ole Miss chapter said in a statement. "The photo is inappropriate, insensitive, and unacceptable. It does not represent our chapter."

University officials had learned of the photo in March after they received a bias report through the school's office of student conduct, said Rod Guajardo, a university spokesman.

The university police later reported the image to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which Guajardo said declined to investigate the incident because the photo did not pose a specific threat.

He said the university sees the image as "offensive and hurtful" but it does not represent a violation of the university's code of conduct.

"It occurred off campus and was not part of a university-affiliated event," he said.

"We support the actions made by the Kappa Alpha Order leadership in suspending the students involved, and we are aware that this decision is backed by its National Administrative Offices."

US Attorney Chad Lamar of the Northern District of Mississippi in Oxford told the Mississippi Center for Investigative Reporting and ProPublica on Thursday that information about the photo was referred to the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division for further investigation.

Deborah Watts, Emmett's cousin and co-founder of the Emmett Till Legacy Foundation, said she saw the photo Thursday and doesn't know who may have vandalized the sign.

"It marks a pretty solemn spot. This marks the spot where Emmett was shot, lynched and beaten," Watts told CNN. "To see them standing there, smiling, is disappointing, but not surprising."

"When I think about that photo -- it's a motivator," she added. "It means our work is more important today than it has ever been."

A bulletproof sign will be installed

The sign has been vandalized on multiple occasions, and stolen at least once, according to the Emmett Till Memorial Commission -- the group responsible for the sign.

"Our signs and ones like them have been stolen, thrown in the river, replaced, shot, replaced again, shot again, defaced with acid and have had KKK spray painted on them. The vandalism has been targeted and it has been persistent," Patrick Weems, the group's executive director, said in a statement Thursday.

Weems did not discuss the photo or confirm whether the sign was damaged this year.

The first sign went up along the river in 2007. It was stolen the following year and was never found, Weems had said.

Eight years later, its replacement was riddled with bullet holes in multiple acts of vandalism. Last year, a third sign was put up near the river and was shot up 35 days later. A professor from nearby Delta State University found the sign defaced by bullet holes, Weems said last year.

A fourth sign -- a bulletproof sign -- is expected to be installed at the site soon, the group said Thursday.

"We believe it is important to keep a sign at this historic site, but we don't want to hide the legacy of racism by constantly replacing broken signs," the statement said. "The commission hopes this sign will endure, and that it will continue to spark conversations about Till, history, and racial justice."

What happened to Emmett Till?

The killing of Emmett Till in 1955 shook the nation and helped to fuel the civil rights movement.

Emmett had traveled to Mississippi from Chicago to visit his great-uncle when he was falsely accused of flirting with Carolyn Bryant, a 21-year-old at the time. Bryant and her husband, Roy, owned a grocery store in Money, Mississippi.

Days later, Roy Bryant and his half-brother, J.W. Milam, rousted the teen from his bed and ordered him into the bed of a pickup truck. They beat him mercilessly. Then they took his life by shooting him in the head. Emmett would have turned 78 years on Thursday.

To get rid of Emmett's body, his killers strapped a 75-pound cotton gin fan to his neck with barbed wire. That way he'd be weighed down when they threw his battered body in the Tallahatchie. It was found days later.

Bryant and Milam went on trial less than a month after Emmett's body was pulled from the river. There were witnesses who saw them. The men admitted they had kidnapped Emmett.

But Bryant and Milam were acquitted by an all-white jury. A year later, they confessed but double jeopardy laws prevented them from facing another trial.

Emmett's mother demanded an open-casket funeral and forbade attempts to hide his injuries. Gruesome photos of the boy's mutilated body spread across the globe, lending jarring visuals to the stories of violence and discrimination coming out of the South.

(CNN) - Supermodel and reality star Janice Dickinson reached a "very large settlement" with Bill Cosby's insurance company in her defamation case, her lawyer Lisa Bloom said at a press conference Thursday.

The defamation lawsuit began when Dickinson, 64, said in 2014 that Cosby had drugged and assaulted her in 1982 after the two had dinner in Lake Tahoe, Nevada. Cosby's lawyer at the time, Marty Singer, accused Dickinson of lying about it, and Dickinson then sued Cosby for defamation.

"Truthfully, a settlement is a victory and a measure of justice," said Dickinson, who was flanked by her attorney.

Bloom said Dickinson will be "fully compensated for being called a liar" and is free to tell her story. The settlement amount will remain confidential, but Bloom described it as "epic" and later presented Dickinson with a bouquet of flowers and called this "her victory press conference."

Dickinson said she lost her innocence after the rape in 1982 and "nothing can replace the before and after."

"Let's stop yielding our power to the perp," she said, urging sexual assault victims to come forward. "Tell your story and stand up for your rights."

Cosby's spokesman blames insurance company

But Cosby's spokesman said the settlement was not an admission of guilt.

The insurance company AIG had settled the lawsuit despite Cosby's objections, spokesman Andrew Wyatt said.

"To be clear, AIG's settlement of this lawsuit has no bearing whatsoever on the merit of Ms. Dickinson's claims. Mr. Cosby has every confidence that, had the case proceeded to trial, a jury would have found that the statements issued by his former attorney -- statements which Mr. Cosby himself never spoke and which he played no part in preparing -- were not defamatory," he said.

Cosby, 82, was convicted of three counts of aggravated indecent assault last year and is serving a three-to-ten year sentence in a Pennsylvania prison.

Those charges dealt solely with his assault of Andrea Constand, but Dickinson also testified at his criminal trial as a "prior bad acts" witness to show that Cosby had a pattern in his illegal behavior.

Dickinson's 2002 autobiography, "No Lifeguard On Duty," mentions the Lake Tahoe visit does not mention Cosby's alleged assault. But in court, she testified that Cosby gave her a blue pill over dinner, and soon after she felt had trouble getting words out and then was rendered motionless. She said that's when she was raped..

In April, AIG reached a settlement in a defamation case against Cosby filed by seven women. The plaintiffs in that case had all publicly accused Cosby of sexual misconduct and claimed that Cosby damaged their reputations through statements to the media.

At the time, Cosby said in a statement on Facebook that the AIG settlement was done "without my knowledge, without my permission and without my consent." He accused the insurance company of failing to defend him.

Wyatt made a similar argument in his statement on Thursday.

"This is the third example in recent months of AIG robbing Mr. Cosby of the opportunity to clear his name in a court of law, where evidence and truthfulness are supposed to be elevated above headlines and gossip," Wyatt said.

"AIG's apparent strategy to have Mr. Cosby tried exclusively in the court of public opinion has become clear, and its decision to settle each of these lawsuits over Mr. Cosby's objections is illustrative of AIG's bad faith.".

on (CNN) - When Boris Johnson's girlfriend Carrie Symonds joined the entourage of staff for his first speech as British Prime Minister, the waiting photographers went "bananas."

Until now, Johnson's 31-year-old girlfriend has done a pretty good job of staying out of the media spotlight -- rarely seen on the campaign trail and steering clear of historic moments like meeting the Queen.

Keeping a low profile as Johnson's girlfriend for the past 18 months is one thing. But doing the same as the Prime Minister's partner will prove more difficult.

From the couple's living arrangements (will she move into Downing Street?) to her involvement in diplomatic affairs (will she accompany him on foreign trips?), the British media has in recent days been in overdrive speculating on the unprecedented relationship.

For never in living memory has a UK prime minister had an unmarried partner while in office. Downing Street told CNN it did not know whether Symonds would be moving into the famous residence.

These are uncharted waters for the British establishment and Symonds' role will be largely down to personal preference. Unlike US first ladies, UK first partners have no strictly defined role.

"It's kind of made up as they go along, so it's very dependent on the personality of the particular person, said Professor Tony Travers, director of the Institute of Public Affairs at the London School of Economics.

Travers pointed to the way former prime minister Tony Blair's wife Cherie continued her career as a barrister and "was very much her own person with almost nothing to do" with her husband's job.

Meanwhile Theresa May's husband Philip stood by her side as she delivered her final speech as prime minister -- "he decided to have a supportive, low profile, and the press pretty much left it at that," said Travers.

A powerful political communicator

The new Prime Minister is also unusual for having a partner who had a political career -- long before she met Johnson. The daughter of Matthew Symonds, a co-founder of the Independent newspaper, and the paper's lawyer Josephine McCaffee, Symonds had a privileged upbringing in southwest London where she attended a private girls' school.

Symonds studied theater studies and art history at the well-respected University of Warwick, before working as a press officer for the Conservative Party in 2010 and quickly rising up its ranks.

She was part of the campaign team that helped to get Johnson re-elected as mayor of London in 2012.

At 29, Symonds became the youngest-ever director of communications at the party, and analysts say she's been crucial in tidying up Johnson's famously disheveled persona during the leadership campaign.

"Since she's come on the scene he's become a much trimmer figure, he's lost weight, he's had his hair cut ... he's definitely smartened up his appearance," said Caroline Wheeler, deputy political editor at the Sunday Times newspaper.

Symonds is a "very established political communicator," Wheeler added. "She'll know how to keep him on message."

Throughout the leadership campaign Johnson was "very careful" about whom he spoke to, said Wheeler, doing few newspaper interviews and shunning some of the major TV debates.

"He's been a lot more disciplined figure and lots of people have credited Carrie with that transformation," Wheeler said.

Symonds now works as a senior advisor to conservation charity Oceana, and her Twitter feed is filled with stories ranging from overfishing to banning trophy hunting.

Now some analysts believe she will have the PM's ear on the climate crisis and animal welfare, an issue that Johnson unexpectedly touched on during his inaugural speech.

"She'll influence policies, particularly the environment," said LBC radio broadcaster and political commentator Iain Dale. Johnson has been "talking a lot about climate change during the campaign," he said.

The 'taxi cab rapist'

Symonds has also spoken out about other issues important to her. Barely out of her teens, she spoke publicly about her encounter with John Worboys -- known in the UK as the "taxi cab rapist" who is thought to have assaulted at least 100 victims.

At 19, Symonds caught a lift with Worboys to her home in west London and during the ride he offered her alcohol -- much like the other spiked drinks he gave his victims. She said that as a result, she does not know what happened afterwards.

Symonds waived her anonymity in the case, telling a number of British papers about her ordeal. She also helped to launch a judicial review after the parole board decided Worboys was no longer a threat.

The review later found Worboys still posed a major risk to the public, and would remain in jail. The justice system had "let us down," Symonds wrote in the Evening Standard. "Finally we've been proved right."

Tabloid fodder

Today, Symonds is in British newspapers for different reasons.

At 55, Johnson is more than two decades older than Symonds, and still technically married to his ex-wife of 26 years Marina Wheeler, with whom he has four children.

The couple separated last year and reports of Johnson's alleged extra-marital affairs -- and children out of wedlock -- have long graced the pages of the UK papers.

Johnson has never publicly addressed the issue of his extra-marital children. CNN contacted Johnson's office for comment but had not received a reply at time of publication.

Given Johnson's complicated private life, his relationship with Symonds "has got all the ingredients for the type of thing tabloid newspapers love," said Travers.

But their relationship is also a reflection of modern Britain, said Wheeler. "There are lot of people who choose to live together without being married," she said. "And I think it's important that those who are running the country, reflect what many people in this country are doing."

The couple's relationship was put under the spotlight like never before during the leadership campaign after police were called to an argument at Symonds' south London flat.

Neighbors recorded Symonds telling Johnson to "get off me" and "get out of my flat." Police said that officers arrived and "spoke to all occupants of the address, who were all safe and well."

The incident raised questions about whether Britain's next leader owed the public an explanation for what happens behind closed doors.

"The British press is supposed to operate on a 'public interest' basis," said Travers. Meaning "does the prime minister's private life in any way impinge on their capacity to do their job?"

With the UK in the grip of its worst political crisis in decades, Johnson is under huge pressure to deliver Brexit by the October 31 deadline. The PM probably feels he can do without the extra focus on his private life.

The 24-year-old was driving west on US Route 466 in California, bound for a racing event in Salinas, on September 30, 1955, when his 1955 Porsche 550 Spyder collided with a 1950 Ford Tudor driven by a Navy veteran, Donald Turnupseed. In Dean's passenger seat was his Porsche mechanic, Rolf Wütherich, who survived the accident.

"The early death of James Dean reverberates to this day," said Bobby Livingston, executive vice president at RR Auction. "These images offer an intensely unique perspective of the crash location and the resulting carnage -- many of the photos taken only hours after the accident."

According to RR Auction, the black-and-white photo collection consists of 12 overhead views of the intersection where the accident occurred and 18 "ground-level" photos, nine of which have more up-close details of the aftermath of the accident and mangled vehicles.

Six of the photos have inside and outside views of Dean's Porsche. His racing number, 130, is prominently displayed on the back along with a "Little Bastard" decal.

On the back of the ground-level photos, "Wütherich vs. Turnupseed-Dean-Coulter" is written in pencil, referring to Wütherich's attempt to sue the insurance companies of both Dean and Turnupseed for a double fractured jaw and a severely torn left hip that required multiple surgeries, according to RR Auction.

The legal proceedings never came to fruition, with Wütherich returning to West Germany in 1957.

There's also a signed letter of provenance from Robert A. Coyle, the son of Robert Everett Coyle, who served as the attorney for Turnupseed and his insurance company.

"When the case was dropped, he was still in possession of the photographs and being a history buff, made sure they were not destroyed," the letter says.

The wrecked Porsche went on national tour as a highway safety exhibit, but it went missing while being transported from Florida to California, according to CNN affiliate WLS.

The Volo Auto Museum outside Chicago offered a $1 million reward for the wreckage and told WLS that it got a credible tip about the Porsche's whereabouts in 2014.

The man "said he was 6 years old at the time and was present as his father and some other men put the wreckage behind a false wall in a building in Whatcom County, Washington," museum Director Brian Grams said.

Grams said in 2015 that the man passed a polygraph test regarding the details of his story but did not want to reveal where the building was until he had a signed deal for a portion of the museum's reward money. The museum would pay that reward money only if it got legal ownership of the Porsche, according to WLS. However, the wreckage remains missing.

The Little Rock Zoo announced the death of its resident of over 31 years Thursday night. Gorillas like her typically live to be about 40 in the wild and 50 in human care, according to the National Zoo, but Trudy outlived them by more than a decade.

Brought to the Little Rock Zoo in 1988 from Buffalo with her breeding partner, Ollie, the two were the first gorillas exhibited in Arkansas, according to the zoo.

Most gorillas in zoos now are born in captivity, but Trudy was born in the wild. She was one of the last to be caught and brought into zoo captivity.

The western lowland gorilla is the most populous and widespread species of all gorillas, according to the World Wildlife Organization. Even so, their numbers are on the decline, with poaching and disease reducing their numbers by 60% over the last 20 to 25 years, according to the organization.

They can be found in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Gabon. They typically live in groups led by a silverback gorilla, according to the National Zoo, but Trudy bucked tradition.

Though she lived with all male groups, zookeepers said Trudy "ruled the roost."

She was described as spunky, with a mind of her own. The zoo said she was known for purring when it was time for food or when she saw someone she liked.

"There are so many memories, stories and anecdotes to share about Trudy. She is a cherished member of the Little Rock Zoo family. To say that she will be missed and that her absence is felt is an understatement. We are glad to know she had a good home with us here," said Little Rock Zoo Director Susan Altrui.

Who's who of Jeffrey Epstein's powerful friends, associates and possible co-conspirators
Updated 5:26 AM ET, Tue August 13, 2019
(CNN) - Jeffrey Epstein's death ends the criminal case against him, but his powerful friends and associates may not have heard the last of it.

US Attorney for the Southern District of New York Geoffrey Berman said the investigation of Epstein's alleged conduct, including a conspiracy charge, remains ongoing, and Attorney General Bill Barr similarly said the case will continue against anyone who was complicit with Epstein.

"Any co-conspirators should not rest easy. The victims deserve justice and they will get it," Barr said.

In addition, Epstein's accusers asked a federal judge on Monday to invalidate the non-prosecution agreement that Epstein reached with prosecutors in the US Attorney's Office in Florida a decade ago, which would give authorities "greater power" to go after his alleged co-conspirators.

Given that ongoing investigation, CNN took a look at the notable figures connected to Epstein who have been named in sworn testimony, as well as the major political figures with ties to him.

Unnamed assistants

The federal indictment against Epstein says that he ran a trafficking enterprise in which he sexually abused dozens of underage girls between 2002 and 2005 at his homes in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Florida. He also paid some of his victims to recruit other victims, the document states.

He was charged with sex trafficking of minors and conspiracy to engage in sex trafficking of minors, and he had pleaded not guilty to the charge.

The indictment specifically alleges Epstein worked and conspired with employees and associates who facilitated his conduct by, among other things, contacting victims and scheduling their sexual encounters with him.

The roles of three employees are laid out in the indictment, though they are not personally identified.

"Employee-1," based in New York, was directed by Epstein to communicate with victims to arrange their visits to his New York City mansion, the indictment says. This employee also sometimes asked the victim-recruiters to bring a specific underage girl for Epstein, the indictment states.

"Employee-2" and "Employee-3" were both assistants who worked for Epstein and both were also responsible for scheduling sexual encounters with victims ahead of his visits to his Palm Beach residence, according to the indictment.

It's unclear why the assistants were not named in the documents.

Other unnamed employees have similarly been noted in a draft version of a lawsuit that was expected to be filed by Jennifer Araoz, who said she was raped by Epstein when she was 15.

CNN usually does not name possible sexual misconduct victims, but is identifying Araoz because she came forward to speak publicly on a television news program and is named in the lawsuit draft.

Her draft complaint targeted Epstein as well as unidentified women called the "Recruiter," the "Secretary" and the "Maid," whom it dubs Jane Does 1, 2 and 3. The draft complaint said that the recruiter facilitated her "grooming" to be sexually assaulted by Epstein, and that the secretary and the maid would give her money after her visits to Epstein.

Ghislaine Maxwell

A series of documents unsealed last week accuse Ghislaine Maxwell, the British daughter of the late publishing tycoon Robert Maxwell, of assisting Epstein in his sexual abuse.

At the heart of the documents are allegations Virginia Roberts Giuffre made in a 2015 defamation case. Giuffre said Epstein kept her as a "sex slave" and that he was assisted by Maxwell. Testimony from another woman in those documents also alleged abuse at the hands of Epstein and Maxwell.

The case was settled in 2017.

An attorney for Maxwell did not respond to CNN's request for comment on Friday. Maxwell and her representatives have previously denied she engaged in sexual abuse or sex trafficking.

In the court filings, Maxwell and her attorney portray Giuffre as an unreliable narrator, pointing to errors in certain dates and figures she provided. Giuffre has said the errors were mistakes.

David Boies, an attorney for Giuffre, said Friday that her lawsuit "exposed for prosecutors, and now the public, the scope and scale and ugliness of the Epstein/Maxwell sex trafficking ring."

Les Wexner

Epstein's longtime associate was Les Wexner, the CEO and founder of L Brands, the parent company of Victoria's Secret and Bath & Body Works. After Epstein's arrest on federal charges last month, Wexner acknowledged that Epstein was his former personal money manager and that he served as a trustee of the Wexner Foundation, the CEO's charitable group.

He said he severed ties with Epstein 12 years ago and denied knowledge of his criminal behavior.

"I would never have guessed that a person I employed more than a decade ago could have caused such pain to so many people," Wexner wrote in a letter to L Brands employees. "My heart goes out to each and every person who has been hurt."

Their connections ran deep, and Wexner gave Epstein "sweeping powers over his finances, philanthropy and private life," The New York Times reported.

Epstein even tried to get involved in the recruitment of models for Victoria's Secret's popular catalog, the Times reported. That troubled executives at the company, which used talent agencies to scout models. Wexner was alerted by executives and reportedly said he would handle the issue, but Epstein's involvement in trying to attract models continued, the Times reported.

L Brands' spokesperson said the board of directors has "engaged outside counsel to conduct a thorough review" at their direction.

"While Mr. Epstein served as Mr. Wexner's personal money manager for a period that ended nearly 12 years ago, we do not believe he was ever employed by nor served as an authorized representative of the company," an L Brands (LB) spokesperson said in a statement Friday.

Wexner has accused Epstein of misappropriating "vast sums of money" from him and his family, according to a letter to Wexner Foundation members. Wexner told members of his Ohio-based charitable group that he discovered the missing funds after cutting ties with Epstein in 2007.

"This was, frankly, a tremendous shock, even though it clearly pales in comparison to the unthinkable allegations against him now," said the letter, which was not signed by Wexner or dated.

One of Epstein's accusers said Epstein sexually assaulted her in Wexner's home, according to an affidavit filed in a New York court in April as part of a defamation lawsuit against attorney Alan Dershowitz.

Alan Dershowitz

Giuffre has accused Dershowitz, the high-profile attorney who was part of the legal team that negotiated Epstein's 2007 plea deal, of sexually abusing her.

Dershowitz has denied her claims and accused her of fabricating the allegations against him. He said in a statement that Friday's release of documents "categorically proves that Virginia Roberts (Giuffre) never had sex with me."

In April, she filed a separate defamation lawsuit against him, saying that he made "false and malicious" statements about her when he accused her of lying in making her accusations against him.

That case is ongoing, and Dershowitz has filed a motion to dismiss.

Prince Andrew

Giuffre has said that Epstein forced her to perform sex acts with a number of prominent men, including Prince Andrew, Duke of York, in 2001. In addition, another woman who said Epstein and Maxwell abused her said she was forced into sexual acts with Prince Andrew at Epstein's Upper East Side mansion, where Giuffre participated as well, according to the unsealed documents.

In response, a spokesperson for Buckingham Palace said: "This relates to proceedings in the United States, to which The Duke of York is not a party. Any suggestion of impropriety with underage minors is categorically untrue."

In a statement to CNN last month, the spokesperson said, "The Duke of York accepts it was unwise to have met Mr. Epstein in December 2010. The Duke has not met with Mr. Epstein since."

Donald Trump and Bill Clinton

Among Epstein's powerful associates are presidents Donald Trump and Bill Clinton.

"I've known Jeff for fifteen years. Terrific guy," Trump told New York magazine in 2002. "He's a lot of fun to be with. It is even said that he likes beautiful women as much as I do, and many of them are on the younger side. No doubt about it -- Jeffrey enjoys his social life."

However, on July 12, Trump said that he threw Epstein out of his Mar-a-Lago club years ago.

"Jeffrey Epstein was not somebody that I respected. I threw him out. In fact I think the great James Patterson, who's a member of Mar-a-Lago, made a statement yesterday, that many years ago I threw him out. I'm not a fan of Jeffrey Epstein," he said.

A spokesman for Clinton said in a statement last month that the former president took four trips on Epstein's airplane in 2002 and 2003. The statement said they also had one meeting in a Harlem office in 2002 and that Clinton made a brief visit to Epstein's New York apartment with a Secret Service detail.

"President Clinton knows nothing about the terrible crimes Jeffrey Epstein pleaded guilty to in Florida some years ago, or those with which he has been recently charged in New York," Clinton's spokesman, Angel Ureña, said in a statement posted to Twitter.

"He's not spoken to Epstein in well over a decade," the statement adds, "and has never been to Little St. James Island, Epstein's ranch in New Mexico, or his residence in Florida."

Bill Richardson and George Mitchell

Finally, the documents unsealed on Friday in Giuffre's lawsuit against Maxwell include allegations that Giuffre was instructed by Maxwell to have sex with former New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson and former US Sen. George Mitchell, among others.

In a statement Friday, Mitchell called the claim false, adding: "I have never met, spoken with or had any contact with Ms. Giuffre."

A spokeswoman for Richardson called Giuffre's allegation "completely false."

"To be clear, in Governor Richardson's limited interactions with Mr. Epstein, he never saw him in the presence of young or underage girls," spokeswoman Madeleine Mahony said. "Governor Richardson has never been to Mr. Epstein's residence in the Virgin Islands. Governor Richardson has never met Ms. Giuffre."

Employees at Epstein's prison cite mandatory overtime, 18-hour days as controversy brews
Updated 11:06 PM ET, Mon August 12, 2019
(CNN) - The suicide of Jeffrey Epstein is bringing attention to what employees say is a broader problem at short-staffed budget-constrained federal prisons where employees who aren't prison guards are doing guard duty and overtime shifts regularly.

Attorney General William Barr said Monday that "serious irregularities" were found at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in New York, long thought to be a well-run facility that has been used to house high-profile prisoners who require highly secure conditions.

In the case of Epstein, at least one of the two employees on duty at the time was not part of the regular detention workforce but was filling in as a guard, according to a person briefed on the matter. The person's regular position is not publicly known.

Budget cuts and hiring freezes first put in place at the beginning of the Trump administration have taken a toll at law enforcement agencies including the federal Bureau of Prisons, employees say.

After years of complaints, Barr lifted the hiring freeze in April.

But employees say the measures the bureau has had to take to live with budget restraints have taken a toll, including at the MCC.

One of those measures used is called "augmentation" and allows for workers who were hired as teachers and cooks to be trained to fill in at posts normally manned by trained detention officers.

One of the guards who was on duty during Epstein's death was filling in for regular guards.

"It's due to understaffing. It's due to not having enough correctional officers," Serene Gregg, president of the American Federation of Government Employees Local 3148, which represents employees at the MCC.

"They would be performing the functions of correctional officers," Gregg said.

The Bureau of Prisons declined to comment and referred to Barr's comments.

Push to put Epstein in general population

Epstein's attorneys, who spent as many as 12 hours a day meeting with him, had pushed the prison to move Epstein into the facility's general population, a person briefed on the matter said. One of the arguments they made was that he was doing well and that he could use an improvement in his living conditions.

Epstein's lawyers didn't respond to a request for comment.

The decision to move him from suicide watch occurred after the prison staff conducted daily psychological assessments and, according to the person briefed on the matter, determined it was safe for him to be returned to the prison's special housing unit, which is a section more restricted than general population.

When Epstein was taken off suicide watch on July 29, days after his first suicide attempt, he was returned to the facility's special housing unit, where normal protocol calls for him to be housed with a cellmate and to be checked on every 30 minutes.

Epstein's cellmate was moved out on Friday, a day before Epstein was found dead, a person briefed on the matter said. In the hours before his death was discovered, there were no checks made, the person said.

Both guards were working overtime shifts, but it's unclear whether that was mandatory. One person familiar with the matter said both employees volunteered. Union officials say that the overtime was mandatory.

Gregg claimed it's not uncommon at the MCC for employees to work 17-and 18-hour-days and are not allowed to refuse the mandatory overtimes.

"A lot of them are working mandatory overtime three or four times a week," Gregg said. "There's no one to relieve you at end of an eight-hour shift."

New York (CNN) - The jail cell death of accused sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein over the weekend positioned prosecutors to pursue his associates, some of whom allegedly assisted him in abusing underage girls. On Monday, his accusers and law enforcement officials indicated they had taken the first steps toward doing so.

The US attorney's office in Manhattan has suggested it will advance the case by focusing on the conspiracy charge against Epstein, which accused him of working with employees and associates to operate a vast sex-trafficking ring involving dozens of girls. The conspiracy count could allow prosecutors to charge anyone else involved in the scheme.

Some of Epstein's accusers on Monday moved toward pursuing his alleged co-conspirators in a civil case: they asked a federal judge to unwind a nonprosecution agreement the alleged sex trafficker reached with Florida prosecutors a decade ago that immunized his associates.

Inner circle also under scrutiny unrelated to alleged sex trafficking

Members of Epstein's inner circle who have not faced sexual abuse allegations also appear to be bracing for further legal action.

The financial and personal relationship between Epstein and his onetime client and close friend, L Brands CEO Leslie Wexner, has attracted attention since Epstein's arrest, though Wexner has not been accused of any wrongdoing.

Now Wexner has hired one of the most prominent criminal defense attorneys in New York, Mary Jo White, who is a partner at law firm Debevoise & Plimpton LLP and is the former US attorney in Manhattan, according to people familiar with the matter.

In recent weeks, one of these people said, White reached out on Wexner's behalf to prosecutors working on the Epstein case. Spokesmen for Debevoise and the Manhattan US attorney's office declined to comment.

Last week, Wexner wrote a letter to his charitable foundation saying that Epstein "misappropriated vast sums of money from me and my family."

L Brands has hired an outside law firm to conduct an internal investigation. A representative for the company declined a CNN request seeking comment from Wexner.

Prosecutors will draw on Epstein evidence

As they pursue potential targets beyond Epstein, prosecutors will likely have the ability to use material they seized from a search conducted of his Upper East Side mansion in the hours after his arrest in July, according to former federal prosecutor Rachel Maimin, a partner at law firm Lowenstein Sandler LLP who helped prosecute the case against President Donald Trump's former personal attorney Michael Cohen for campaign-finance violations and other crimes.

During the search of Epstein's home, agents recovered a "vast trove" of lewd photographs of young-looking women or girls, dozens of electronic files, compact discs with labels that suggested they contained pictures or videos of people other than Epstein and other material in a locked safe, according to court filings.

"Others wouldn't have standing to object to it because they have no privacy interest in the property," said Maimin, adding that if prosecutors are contemplating new charges beyond conspiracy, they may choose to obtain a new search warrant for the material out of an abundance of caution.

On Monday afternoon, federal agents appeared to take new evidence-gathering measures. Agents from the FBI's New York office visited Little St. James, the island Epstein owns in the Caribbean, according to a spokeswoman for the bureau.

His death was a blow to Manhattan prosecutors

Of course, Epstein's death does put a stop to the case against him individually, a matter that was set to be one of the highest-profile criminal trials the Manhattan US attorney's office had undertaken in years.

Epstein's death is a blow to prosecutors at the Manhattan US attorney's office, where officials were highly invested in the case. In the months leading up to the indictment, prosecutors took "extraordinary efforts," they told the court, to keep their investigation of him secret so that they could prevent Epstein from evading prosecution.

A press conference after Epstein's arrest was punctuated by a dramatic moment when US Attorney Geoffrey Berman stepped out from behind the lectern and pointed his finger at an oversized photo of Epstein's face, imploring people to come forward "if you believe you are a victim of this man." As the case proceeded, a phalanx of senior leadership at the office attended each of Epstein's pretrial court appearances, with Berman arriving alongside the chief of the public corruption unit and his deputy.

But the case is far from over

Over the weekend, Berman signaled that prosecutors would not let the case expire, saying "our investigation of the conduct charged in the Indictment -- which included a conspiracy count -- remains ongoing."

That charge in the indictment accuses Epstein of having "worked and conspired with others, including employees and associates who facilitated his conduct by, among other things, contacting victims and scheduling their sexual encounters with Epstein at the New York Residence and at the Palm Beach Residence."

The indictment alleges that when Epstein traveled from New York to Palm Beach by private jet, "an employee or associate would ensure that minor victims were available for encounters upon his arrival in Florida."

The indictment describes, but doesn't name, a New York-based employee, as well as two other assistants it suggests were based in Palm Beach.

Multiple civil lawsuits filed over the years by various women who have accused Epstein of sexual abuse also allege that he was aided by a coterie of female assistants and employees, primarily a British socialite, Ghislaine Maxwell.

Maxwell allegedly procured underage victims for Epstein and at times herself engaged in sexual assault of minors. Maxwell, who hasn't made a public statement since Epstein was charged in July, has previously denied the allegations. Her attorney didn't respond to a request for comment on Monday.

Epstein's death also doesn't end a number of related civil cases making their way through the courts, including a defamation lawsuit filed by Epstein accuser Virginia Roberts Giuffre against famed lawyer Alan Dershowitz, who once represented Epstein and with whom Giuffre has said Epstein forced her to engage in sex acts.

Dershowitz has denied those allegations, saying they were fabricated, and has filed a motion to dismiss her defamation case. A hearing in that matter is scheduled next month.

And there are additional court papers expected to be unsealed in a separate defamation case that Giuffre settled in 2017 with Maxwell. A judge has set a court date to discuss the unsealing on September 4.

On Monday, US Attorney General William Barr pledged that the Justice Department wouldn't let those who aided Epstein's alleged crimes walk away in the wake of his death.

"Let me assure you that this case will continue on against anyone who was complicit with Epstein," Barr said during a speech in New Orleans.

"Any co-conspirators should not rest easy. The victims deserve justice, and they will get it."New Orleans (CNN) - Attorney General William Barr said investigators are learning of "serious irregularities" at the New York jail where accused sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein was found dead of an apparent suicide over the weekend.

"We are now learning of serious irregularities at this facility that are deeply concerning and demand a thorough investigation," Barr told a national policing conference in New Orleans on Monday morning.

Barr said he was "appalled" and "angry" to learn of the Metropolitan Correctional Center's "failure to adequately secure this prisoner."

Barr announced on Saturday that the FBI and the Justice Department's internal watchdog would investigate Epstein's death.

Epstein's cell was not regularly monitored the night he was believed to have killed himself, and the two guards monitoring the unit he was held in were both on overtime, a source with knowledge of Epstein's time at the prison told CNN on Sunday.

The investigation into what went wrong in the Epstein case is focusing not only on the 24 hours before the suicide but also on wider systemic problems at the jail that have now come to light, a person briefed on the matter told CNN Monday.

At the end of the month, when Epstein was taken off suicide watch and moved back to the Special Housing Unit, jail officials notified Justice Department headquarters.

As part of the regular jail protocol he had a cellmate and the guards on duty were supposed to check on him every 30 minutes, but at some point, the cellmate was moved out, according to the source. And for a number of hours before his death Epstein's cell was not checked on, the source said.

Justice officials have now uncovered broader problems at the jail, which long was considered to be among the best-run facilities in the Bureau of Prisons system, according to the source.

It's not clear what else has been found but the person briefed on the matter said it goes beyond the 24 hours before Epstein's death.

Employees have complained about being overworked and having to work consecutive days of overtime. Of the two guards monitoring Epstein's cell, one was working a mandatory overtime shift and the other was working his fifth overtime shift of the week.

Justice Department officials now say the jail has suffered a breakdown in protocols for a period that goes back years, according to the person briefed on the matter.

On Monday, Barr said that the case against Epstein would continue. A spokeswoman for the New York FBI told CNN it has agents in the US Virgin Islands, specifically on Epstein's island, Little St. James, in connection with the Epstein investigation.

"Let me assure you that this case will continue on against anyone who was complicit with Epstein. Any co-conspirators should not rest easy. The victims deserve justice and they will get it," Barr said.

"For the last 3 years I have fully supported this President," tweeted the former White House communications director about his onetime boss and longtime friend. "Recently he has said things that divide the country in a way that is unacceptable. So I didn't pass the 100% litmus test. Eventually he turns on everyone and soon it will be you and then the entire country."

"Eventually he turns on everyone."

That might seem like an exaggeration made by a disgruntled former friend. It's not. For a man whose life has been defined, in large part, by his open embrace of his inconsistencies and contradictions, one of the very few things Donald Trump has been consistent about is that he goes from love to loathing quickly. If you are close to him (unless you are a member of his immediate family) you are on the clock. It's only a matter of time before he tires of you -- and turns on you.

Consider these names (and this is far from a complete list): Michael Cohen, Omarosa Manigault Newman, Rex Tillerson, James Mattis, Jeff Sessions, Steve Bannon, John Kelly, Paul Ryan, Cliff Sims, Donald McGahn, Chris Christie and Scaramucci.

All were once close to Trump. All were once publicly praised by Trump. And all are now on the outs with him, the result -- in virtually every circumstance -- of Trump finding fault with them, whether in how they were performing the job he had tasked them with or in how they defended him (or didn't) at all costs.

"I need loyalty," then-FBI director James Comey famously said Trump told him in the first week of his presidency. "I expect loyalty." And loyalty to Trump is blind fealty to him -- no matter the consequences or the law.

He turned on Sessions, one of his most loyal surrogates during the campaign, when as attorney general, Sessions recused himself from the Russia probe. According to special counsel Robert Mueller's report, Trump repeatedly sought to get Sessions to un-recuse himself. At one point, Trump reportedly told Sessions this:

"AG is supposed to be [the] most important appointment. Kennedy appointed his brother. Obama appointed Holder. I appointed you and you recused yourself. You left me on an island. I can't do anything."

I, I, I. Me, me, me.

In the wake of Cohen's arrest on charges of tax evasion and other financial wrongdoing, Trump took to Twitter to praise Cohen as a "fine person with a wonderful family." Added Trump:

"Michael is a businessman for his own account/lawyer who I have always liked & respected. Most people will flip if the Government lets them out of trouble, even if it means lying or making up stories. Sorry, I don't see Michael doing that despite the horrible Witch Hunt and the dishonest media!."

Once Cohen agreed to a plea deal, Trump's tone changed. A lot. "If anyone is looking for a good lawyer, I would strongly suggest that you don't retain the services of Michael Cohen," he tweeted in August 2018.

I, I, I. Me, me, me.

Trump's worldview simply doesn't allow for people to remain close to him for any extended period of time. In the President's mind, the only person who lives up to his standards is him. Everyone else will, eventually, disappoint him. And when you disappoint him, he will turn on you. Every. Damn. Time.

It's why Trump has lost nine Cabinet secretaries already in his first term -- despite being only two-and-a-half years into it. It's why, according to figures kept by Kathryn Dunn Tenpas at Brookings, 75% of Trump's "A team" -- his top staffers across the government -- have left in his first term already. (Those numbers are significantly higher than the attrition rates for past presidents in their first terms.)

And it's not going to stop. Scaramucci is the latest victim of the Trump turn, but he won't be the last. This is a feature not a glitch of Trump -- and it has been his whole life.

Being in Trump's inner circle is (again with the exception of family members) a kiss of political death. You don't know exactly when he will turn on you. But you have to know he will do it.Texas has been a linchpin of the Republican Party's national strength for a generation. But in 2018, Democrats recorded their most significant gains in decades in the state's largest urban centers.

Now Texas Republicans face indications that the same recoil from President Donald Trump that has hurt the party in other diverse and well-educated metropolitan areas -- from suburban Philadelphia to Orange County, California -- could combine with growing racial diversity to move Texas from reliably red into a genuinely competitive state much more quickly than almost any analyst envisioned even a few years ago.

"Trump has sped everything up by four to six years," says Richard Murray, a University of Houston political scientist. For the Republicans, he said, "it's a deadly combination of rapid demographic change and the immediate political dynamics."

Texas remains a difficult, though not unreachable, target for Democrats in the 2020 presidential race -- in part because it's unclear whether any potential Democratic nominee other than Beto O'Rourke, who represented a House district in El Paso, would invest the massive sums required to truly compete in the state.

But the party's improving position in Texas' thriving metropolitan areas is creating the opportunity for it to seriously contest as many as five or six more seats in the US House, possibly recapture enough seats to regain a majority in the state House of Representatives and mount highly competitive races both against Trump and Republican Sen. John Cornyn, who is seeking reelection next year.

Republicans keenly recognize the risk they will face if the Democrats can consolidate or even expand their recent beachheads in the state's metropolitan areas, particularly because those areas are projected to cast an ever-increasing share of the state's vote.

"We had made the mistake for years of allowing Democrats to build up a set of strongholds in the major metro areas that they were then able to work from," says James Dickey, the Texas Republican Party chairman. "So it's incumbent on us to recover those gains and attack them right in the base of those strongholds."

The battle for the allegiance of metropolitan Texas is likely to be one of the pivot points in American politics over the next decade. Republicans have carried Texas in every presidential race since 1976, and with the help of favorable district lines drawn by the GOP-controlled state Legislature, have been able to count on big margins from its state congressional delegation -- where Republicans now hold 23 of the 36 seats -- as well as its two Senate seats.

It would fundamentally reshape the competition between the parties if Democrats can loosen the Republican grip on any of those prizes in Texas, especially its 38 Electoral College votes. And if Republicans can no longer count reliably on Texas -- or other Sun Belt states, including Arizona and Georgia, also being transformed by the same twin forces of urbanization and diversification -- it would represent a huge price for the Trump strategy of maximizing support among rural and working-class white voters that has strengthened the GOP in Rust Belt battlegrounds such as Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin.

GOP losing ground in Texas cities

The key to Texas' political future is whether it finally follows the geographic realignment that has transformed the politics of many other states over the past quarter century.

Across the country, Republicans since the 1980s have demonstrated increasing strength among voters who live in exurbs at the edge of the nation's metropolitan centers or beyond them entirely in small-town and rural communities. Democrats, in turn, have extended their historic dominance of the nation's urban cores into improved performance in inner suburbs, many of them well educated and racially diverse.

Both sides of this dynamic have accelerated under Trump, whose open appeals to voters uneasy about racial, cultural and economic change have swelled GOP margins outside the metropolitan areas while alienating many traditionally center-right suburban voters.

In Texas, only half of this equation has played out. In presidential elections since 2000, Republicans have consistently won more than two-thirds of the vote for the two parties in 199 mostly white nonmetropolitan counties across the state, according to a study by Murray and Renee Cross, senior director of the University of Houston's Hobby School of Public Affairs. (Trump in 2016 swelled that number to three-fourths.) The GOP has attracted dominant majorities from those areas in other races, from the Senate and US House to the governorship and state legislative contests. Democrats consistently amassed big majorities in 28 mostly Latino South Texas counties, but they have composed only a very small share of the statewide vote.

The key to the GOP's dominance of the state is that through most of this century it has also commanded majorities in the 27 counties that make up the state's four biggest metropolitan areas: Dallas/Fort Worth, Houston, San Antonio and Austin. Demographically similar places in states along the coasts and in the upper Midwest have moved consistently toward the Democrats since Bill Clinton's era. But in Texas, Republicans still carried 53% to 59% of the vote in those metropolitan counties in the four presidential races from 2000 through 2012, Murray and Cross found.

In the Trump era, though, that metro strength has wavered for the GOP. In 2016, Hillary Clinton narrowly beat Trump across the 27 counties in Texas' four major metropolitan areas. Then in 2018, Democrat O'Rourke carried over 54% of the vote in them in his narrow loss to Sen. Ted Cruz, Murray and Cross found. O'Rourke won each of the largest metro areas, the first time any Democrat on the top of the ticket had carried all four since native son Lyndon B. Johnson routed Barry Goldwater in the 1964 presidential race, according to Murray and Cross.

Looking just at the state's five largest urban counties -- Harris (Houston), Travis (Austin), Bexar (San Antonio), Tarrant (Fort Worth) and Dallas -- the change is even more stark. In 2012, Obama won them by a combined 131,000 votes. By 2016, Clinton expanded the Democratic margin across those five counties to 562,000 votes. In 2018, O'Rourke won those counties by a combined 790,000 votes, about six times more than Obama did in 2012. Along the way, Democrats ousted Republican US House incumbents in suburban Houston and Dallas seats and made substantial gains in municipal and state house elections across most of the major metro areas.

"We have now turned every major metropolitan area blue," says Glenn Smith, a longtime Democratic strategist in the state.

Growth explodes in big metro areas

Yet that, of course, still wasn't enough for O'Rourke to overcome Cruz's huge advantages in smaller nonmetro communities. That outcome underscores the equation facing Texas Democrats in 2020 and beyond: They must reduce the GOP's towering margins outside of the major metropolitan areas and/or expand their own advantage inside the metro centers.

Few in either party give Democrats much chance to record many gains outside of metro Texas, especially given Trump's national strength with such voters. O'Rourke campaigned heavily in Texas' smaller counties and made very limited inroads there, even relative to Clinton's abysmal performance in 2016. Exit polls conducted for a consortium of media organizations including CNN found that O'Rourke carried just 26% of white voters without a college education, only a minuscule improvement from the 21% Clinton won in Texas in 2016.

O'Rourke's very limited rural gains have convinced many Texas Democrats that while they can't entirely abandon smaller parts of the state, their new votes are most likely to come from the metropolitan centers.

"It's a matter of emphasis," says Smith, a senior adviser to the liberal group Progress Texas. "You've got to do urban/ suburban areas first. You've got to maximize your advantage there."

The stakes in the struggle for Texas' big metro areas are rising because they are growing so fast. While the four major metro areas cast about 60% of the statewide votes in the 1996 presidential election, that rose to about 69% in 2016 and 2018, Murray and Cross found. Murray expects the number to cross 70% in 2020.

And the concentration of Texas' population into its biggest metropolitan areas shows no signs of slackening. The Texas Demographic Center, the official state demographer, projects that 70% of the state's population growth through 2050 will settle in just 10 large metropolitan counties. Those include the big five urban centers that O'Rourke carried as well as five adjacent suburban counties; those adjacent counties still leaned toward the GOP in 2018 but by a much smaller cumulative margin than in the past. Overall, O'Rourke won the 10 counties expected to account for the preponderance of the state's future growth by a combined nearly 700,000 votes.

This urbanization is unfolding together with growing diversification. From 2010 through 2018, the US Census Bureau found, non-Hispanic whites accounted for only 14% of Texas' population growth; Asian-American growth roughly equaled whites', African Americans slightly exceeded both and Hispanics dwarfed all three -- they accounted for over 55% of Texas' population growth in that period.

An analysis conducted for a consortium of progressive groups similarly found that minorities will account for fully 88% of the newly eligible Texas voters between 2016 and 2020, with Hispanics alone accounting for 60%, according to sources familiar with the study. The Texas Demographic Center forecasts that Hispanics could supplant whites as the state's largest population group by as soon as 2022.

Most of that minority growth is occurring inside the state's big metropolitan areas, further accelerating their transformation: Harris County last year elected a 27-year-old Latina to its top countywide position and nearby Fort Bend elected an Indian American.

The challenges for Democrats

But the impact of this demographic change has been blunted by consistently low turnout for nonwhite voters in Texas, where Democrats and other liberal groups have lacked the funds to conduct meaningful voter drives for years, and GOP-passed laws, from strict voter identification requirements to limits on voter registration drives, have erected hurdles to greater minority participation. Only about one-third of eligible Hispanics turned out in 2018, the Census Bureau reported.

Democrats are cautiously hopeful that a backlash against Trump in minority communities will improve their turnout in 2020, particularly after a young white man echoed Trump's language of "invasion" before carrying out the recent mass shooting in El Paso.

"That's always this question I have been hearing since I got here: What is going to increase Hispanic turnout in Texas?" said Joshua Blank, manager of polling and research at the University of Texas at Austin's Texas Politics Project. "I think the idea of a white supremacist, in the political environment we're in, specifically targeting a majority Hispanic city like El Paso ... is likely to be a pretty good wake-up call. But we'll see."

It's possible that greater minority engagement could increase the nonwhite share of the Texas vote from the 43% that exit polls recorded in 2016 and 2018. But given Trump's ability to mobilize turnout among his preponderantly white non-urban base, even greater minority participation might be offset by high turnout among rural whites.

The sheer weight of the state's urbanization and diversification will eventually undermine a Trump-type strategy that focuses on maximizing the party's margins outside metro areas at the price of eroding its strength within them. But to close the gap in the next few elections, Democrats may need not only greater turnout but also slightly improved vote shares among their best groups: minorities and especially college-educated white voters.

In contrast to O'Rourke's limited gains among blue-collar whites, exit polls did show him improving substantially with those college-educated white voters: O'Rourke carried 44% of them, up from just 31% for Clinton two years earlier. The most recent Quinnipiac University Poll in Texas showed that among those voters only a narrow 52% to 43% majority approved of Trump's performance. Quinnipiac found a sharp gender gap, with 56% of college-educated white men approving of Trump and 54% of women disapproving.

Still, those numbers are notably better than Trump's showing with those college-educated white voters in most national surveys. And they reflect the challenge Democrats face expanding beyond the beachheads they have established in suburban Texas communities.

One is that more white suburbanites in Texas than elsewhere are evangelical Christians, perhaps the group now most staunchly supportive of Trump and the GOP. In 2018, the exit polls found that about 40% of college-educated white voters in Texas identified as evangelicals, and they backed Cruz by overwhelming margins, according to figures provided by Edison Research, which conducts the exit polls.

Also, as Blank says, whatever their religious affiliation, Texas suburbanites are marinated in a political culture much more conservative on almost all issues than comparable suburbs elsewhere. Democrats offering big new programs and higher taxes may still face more resistance in the suburbs of Texas than states such as California and Colorado, particularly among men.

"Regardless of the rapid demographic change that is going on in the state, it still maintains a pretty conservative political culture writ large," Blank says. "In a place like Texas, as opposed to some of these upper Midwest or Northeastern states, by no means does going to college here mean you are having an overwhelmingly liberalizing experience. Some of these schools are tied to rural Texas and Christianity: It is not like we have Yale and Harvard and Swarthmore down here."

Still, Blank notes, the diverse young families now filling the suburbs of Texas' largest metropolitan areas are very different from the predominantly white families who powered their first wave of growth after the 1960s: While those earlier suburbanites were largely fleeing racially diverse cities, their successors today want to remain close to the cities while securing more affordable housing. "Fundamentally, that's a different kind of mindset," he says, "and that's a mindset that tends to align more with Democratic Party values."

For 2020, both sides are preparing extensive voter-mobilization efforts targeted mostly at the major metropolitan areas. Dickey says the state GOP, which for years faced little effective challenge to its control, will launch a major organizational effort next year with both paid staff and volunteers to roll back the 2018 Democratic gains in the big population centers.

"The question is whether that was a trend or a dip," he says. "The answer is that depends on us. Will we do the work necessary to win back the geographic areas that we had as recently as 2014?"

But Murray says that in Texas, as in other states, Trump's racially divisive messaging leaves the GOP facing a stiff headwind in metropolitan areas growing mostly with minority and well-educated white voters. "Trump is killing the urban Republican Party," Murray says flatly.

If that proves true even in Texas, whether in 2020 or soon after, it will fundamentally reshape the national electoral landscape.

No, neither of these players are retiring, though Brown reportedly threatened to. They, along with other NFL players, are having to adjust to new helmets -- whether they want to or not.

"I've been experimenting with a couple different ones, and I don't really love the one that I'm in, but I don't really have much of a choice," Brady said in his Monday interview with radio station WEEI. "So I'm just trying to do the best I can to work with it."

The NFL and NFL Players Association are banning the use of some older model helmets this season to improve player safety. That means some of the league stars like Brady, Brown and Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers are forced to make the switch. As of the final week of the 2018 season, 32 players (less than two percent of total players) remained in one of the prohibited helmets.

"You get used to the same helmet for a long period of time," Brady, starting his 20th season as the New England Patriots quarterback, said. "My last helmet, I wore it the last four Super Bowls, so it was a pretty great helmet for me. I hated to put it on the shelf. It's kind of what I'm dealing with."

READ: English ex-rugby pro Christian Wade scores 65-yard touchdown on his first NFL touch READ: Worth $5 billion, the world's most valuable sports team is the Dallas Cowboys

Players aren't allowed to play or practice unless they have approved helmets. That didn't sit well with Brown. The Oakland Raiders wide receiver, who is in his 10th season, wanted to use the same helmet he's worn his entire career. He took his case to an arbitrator, who was jointly approved by the NFL and the players' union. The ruling went in favor of the league.

"While I disagree with the arbitrator's decision, I'm working on getting back to full health and looking forward to rejoining my teammates on the field," Brown said in a tweet. "I'm excited about this season appreciate all the concerns about my feet!"

Visit CNN.com/sport for more news, videos and features

Brown suffered frostbite on his feet doing cryotherapy. On Saturday, following their preseason game against the Los Angeles Rams, Raiders head coach Jon Gruden said he hopes to have him available this week.

"We hope Antonio is back here soon because he's exciting to be around," Gruden said. "I'm excited, I have some plays for him. I hope I can start calling them."

Malaysian police told reporters on Tuesday that a Caucasian female body had been found in the forest surrounding the resort where the 15-year-old was on holiday with her family, according to Britain's Press Association (PA) news agency.

An official explained that the body, which he said "resembles Nora", had been winched by helicopter to the hospital, PA reported. Quoirin's family were going to the mortuary to undertake an identification, he added.

Search teams had been scouring the rainforest surrounding the Dunsun resort since Quoirin, who has a learning disability, was found to be missing from her bedroom on Sunday, August 4.

The Lucie Blackman Trust (LBT), which has been assisting the girl's family, also confirmed the discovery and said that an investigation was underway.

"At this time we cannot confirm it is Nora. However it sadly seems likely," The Lucie Blackman Trust (LBT) said in a statement seen by CNN on Tuesday.

LBT said that an update would be given "as soon as possible" and asked for the family to be given privacy.

Quoirin, whose mother is from Belfast and whose father is French, was traveling on an Irish passport during the trip.

Her parents offered a £10,000 ($12,000) reward for information leading to the return of their daughter, after receiving a donation from an anonymous business in Belfast, Northern Ireland. It came after Quoirin's family crowd-funded donations which exceeded £100,000 ($120,000).

"Nóra would not know how to get help and would never leave her family voluntarily," her aunt wrote in the appeal. "Nora is a child with special needs and has learning and developmental disabilities which make her especially vulnerable and we fear for her safety."

The resort, where the family was staying, is in a remote area 800 feet above sea level in the Titiwangsa mountain range. It contains six houses, each surrounded by rainforest, and has capacity for just 20 guests.

The comedian on Monday told her social media followers that there have been recent attempts to extort her over an image she accidentally and briefly posted to Instagram earlier this year in which part of her breast was visible.

"In April I accidentally posted an insta story that showed nipple," she said on Twitter. "Once I realized, I deleted. The people who took screen grabs are trying to get money from me, some said they have offers to sell them, some are asking for money to not post the photo."

On Facebook, she shared a screencap of one private message in which a person asked Cummings how much money he or she would receive if they did not share the photo.

"When a woman in the public eye is extorted, we have to spend time, money and energy dealing with it, hiring lawyers and security experts, and living with a pit in our stomach about when and how we will be humiliated," Cummings wrote on Twitter. "Y'all can have my nipple, but not my time or money anymore."

Cummings did not share the identities of any of the people she says were attempting to get money from her "because some of them might be dumb kids."

More than 30 states and the District of Columbia have laws against nonconsensual disclosure of sexually explicit images and videos. And at least 12 states have civil laws that pertain specifically to nonconsensual image sharing.

Hong Kong (CNN) - Hong Kong's airport has been thrown into chaos for the second day in a row, with all check-ins suspended and dozens of outgoing flights canceled.

Thousands of protesters blocked security gates at one of the world's largest travel hubs on Tuesday, with some passengers struggling to get through the demonstrators to their gates.

At 5 p.m. Hong Kong's Airport Authority announced that all check-in services would be suspended for another night, due to terminal operations being "seriously disrupted."

"Members of the public are advised not to come to the airport," the authority said in a statement. All outbound flights which have not yet completed the check-in process have been canceled.

Inbound flights are mostly expected to continue to operate as scheduled.

It followed a night of chaos at the airport Monday when dozens of outgoing flights were canceled after thousands of protesters arrived to protest police violence during protests on Sunday.

Many passengers were left stranded with little information as to their situation with some even spending the night in the airport on the chance they would get a flight out.

On Tuesday morning, Hong Kong's Chief Executive Carrie Lam warned that the city was on "the brink of no return" and said it would take a long time to recover from the recent mass demonstrations.

"The only thing we have to do is to go against violence, and rebuild the city," said Lam.

In an unusually strong statement, Hong Kong company Swire Pacific, who own flagship airline Cathay Pacific, have called for the "restoration of law and order" in the city.

"We must act now to stop the violence and preserve the stability, peace and prosperity of Hong Kong," the statement said.

World transport hub grounded

Last year, Hong Kong's airport handled 74.7 million passengers -- an average of about 205,000 per day. But on Monday, the airport was brought to a standstill as protesters occupied parts of the airport.

Confused tourists were left unsure of what was happening as shops, restaurants and check-in counters closed. Trains and buses heading into the city were packed with people, and the one available information desk was staffed by frazzled looking workers.

After the numbers of protesters dwindled overnight, more began to pour into the airport from early on Tuesday morning, chanting slogans and putting up signs.

When feared police action failed to materialize on Monday night, protesters said they felt the airport was a safe place for them to demonstrate. "We feel this is more safe to just sit and say what we want. It's more safe than going outside," one female protester said.

Disagreements occasionally broke out between passengers and protesters. Two men -- one of whom was wearing a cap emblazoned with a Chinese flag -- were seen arguing with protesters in the arrivals hall, before being ushered away by security as protesters cheered.

Another passenger -- who appeared to be from mainland China -- told protesters that they were causing inconvenience for others.

After the widespread cancellations were announced Tuesday, passengers who had been preparing to head to the airport were frustrated and confused.

Waiting at Hong Kong subway station, a 33-year-old French man who lives in Hong Kong, Loic, said that he didn't know if his flight was canceled. "I don't know what I can do. Maybe I can go to Shenzhen," he said.

But despite the days of disruption, some locals were still supportive of the protesters. "It touched me to see Hong Kong like this, I'm not angry," a 31-year-old passenger, who asked not to be identified, told CNN. "I still support them."

Why Hong Kong is protesting

Hong Kong's protest movement kicked off in earnest in June, sparked by a bill that would allow extradition to China.

Since then, the protests have expanded into something bigger, with protesters now demanding greater democracy and an inquiry into alleged police brutality.

The protest movement -- that on Sunday passed its 10th straight weekend of demonstrations -- has seen protesters and police clash numerous times, with police firing multiple rounds of tear gas.

Beijing, meanwhile, has criticized the actions of the protesters. On Monday, a top Chinese official said the protests "had begun to show signs of terrorism."

He goes to U.S.A to learn English.

Swire Pacific, one of Hong Kong's richest family-owned business empires, issued a strongly worded statement on Tuesday. The company condemned "illegal activities and violent behavior" and threw its support behind Hong Kong's beleaguered government.

"Swire Pacific is deeply concerned by the ongoing violence and disruption impacting Hong Kong," the company said in a statement, offering its full support for Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam and the city's police "in their efforts to restore law and order."

The company's CEO is billionaire Merlin Swire. The family's business empire dates back more than 200 years and has had roots in Hong Kong for much of that time. It owns luxury hotels, office towers and high-end shopping malls in the city.

Swire is also the largest shareholder in Cathay Pacific, Hong Kong's flagship airline that has become a high profile casualty of the turmoil. Swire said it fully supports the carrier's "strict implementation" of new restrictions on the airline handed down by China's aviation authority over the weekend.

The statement came as hundreds of protestors crowded into Hong Kong's international airport, disrupting flights for the second day in a row.

Cathay has canceled more than 270 flights over the last two days. Shares in the carrier have fallen nearly 14% this month.

Property tycoon: Time to "think deeply"

Sun Hung Kai Properties, which is controlled by Asia's third richest family, the Kwoks, also called Tuesday for demonstrators to stop the violence. The real estate developer called for the restoration of social order and voiced support for Hong Kong's government and Lam.

Property tycoon Peter Woo, the former chairman of developer Wheelock & Co., also called on protesters to ease off, saying they already notched a victory by getting the government to shelve a controversial extradition bill that originally sparked the protests.

"It's time to think it over," Woo said in a statement Monday. "Opposition to the extradition bill was the 'big tree' of this movement. But this one, big appeal was accepted by the government on July 9. So the tree has already fallen." Some people are using the issue to "purposely stir up trouble," he added.

Hong Kong has some of the most expensive real estate on the planet, but the protests are now threatening its economy. City officials have warned that the disruption could have a more lasting impact than the outbreak of the deadly SARS virus in 2003 that slashed the lucrative tourist trade. Real estate, among other industries, could take a major hit.

Why Hong Kong is protesting

Hong Kong's protest movement kicked off in earnest in June. It was sparked by the extradition bill, which many feared could be used by Beijing to crush dissent.

Since then, the demonstrations have expanded into something bigger. Protestors are now demanding greater democracy and an inquiry into alleged police brutality. The protest movement — now entering its 11th week — has seen protesters and police clash numerous times.

Hong Kong (CNN) - Out-of-control mobs beating up police. Crazed separatists throwing petrol bombs and vandalizing government buildings. The symbols of the country insulted and humiliated. Local authorities overwhelmed and in need of assistance.

This is the picture consumers of Chinese state media have been receiving of the Hong Kong protests, now approaching their 11th consecutive weekend. While there is some truth to it -- there have been numerous incidents of violence, and protesters have targeted Chinese flags and government buildings -- it remains a highly selective and incomplete take.

Crucially, it appears to distort the reasons behind the unrest. Protests were initially sparked by opposition to a now-shelved extradition bill, but have since expanded to include demands for an investigation into police brutality and long-running calls for greater democracy and political reform.

It also ignores the many peaceful marches and the reciprocal, seemingly self-perpetuating cycle of violence, with both protesters and police deploying increasingly forceful tactics.

While many Hong Kongers are concerned about the escalating violence, and many have been inconvenienced by transport shutdowns and other travel disruptions, there is little sense of danger in the city beyond the protest front lines, and it is certainly far from the war zone often depicted in Chinese state media.

The presentation of the protests in mainland China -- where propaganda combines with the vast online censorship apparatus of the Great Firewall to allow the government to construct a narrative of its choosing -- has evolved significantly over the past two months.

Initially, almost all mention of the protests was censored, as is usual for anti-government action anywhere in China. Stories that did appear played up local support for the now-shelved extradition law, and framed opposition to it as a minority.

As the movement evolved, however, so too did Chinese state media coverage.

Violent clashes between police and protesters, beginning on June 12 when crowds effectively shut down the city's legislature and police cleared them with heavy force, were given sudden prominence and distributed widely.

A one one-sided narrative was constructed in which protesters, now labeled "violent mobs," were solely responsible for the escalating conflict. This was soon joined by allegations -- including from senior Chinese officials -- that Washington and other foreign governments were "meddling" in the protests and using them as a vehicle to attack China.

As the protests continued, violent mobs became "criminals" and "separatists," pursuing not greater democracy or an investigation into police violence, as they have demanded publicly, but Hong Kong independence.

On Monday, this gradual rhetorical escalation reached a new stage, with Yang Guang, a spokesman for the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, China's top body in charge of affairs in the city, saying the protests showed "signs of terrorism."

"Hong Kong's radical demonstrators have repeatedly attacked police officers with extremely dangerous tools," he said. "They have already constituted serious violent crimes and have begun to show signs of terrorism. This is a gross violation of the rule of law and social order in Hong Kong, which is endangering the lives and safety for Hong Kong citizens."

On the same day, amid images of chaos coming out of Hong Kong's paralyzed international airport, Chinese state media broadcast images of the People's Armed Police (PAP) conducting drills in the neighboring mainland Chinese city of Shenzhen, in an apparent message to a domestic audience that the force stood poised to assist in crushed the protests. Some videos included subtitles highlighting relevant Chinese law that the PAP, which is under the direct control of the Central Military Commission headed by President Xi Jinping, can be used to "handle riots, unrest, severe violent criminal activities, terrorist attacks and other public safety incidents."

Worrying signal

Lev Nachman, an expert in social movements in Hong Kong and Taiwan at the University of California, Irvine, said that while Yang's use of the caveat "signs of terrorism," rather than outright saying protesters were terrorists, was something of a silver lining, it suggested "harsh repression by the regime is now no longer off the table, especially if protests continue."

"Evoking terrorism is rhetorical groundwork for escalation, it gives the Communist Party room to continue down this loaded line of 'terrorism' discourse that has the potential to justify whatever violence they deem necessary to stop whatever the 'terrorist' threat is," he said. "It almost feels like a threat from Yang Guang to the protesters that they are approaching a level of disruption that the (Party) no longer finds acceptable."

Under Hong Kong's de facto constitution, the government can request the assistance of China's People's Liberation Army (PLA) garrison in the city for the "maintenance of public order." However, experts agree that the deployment of the military to the streets of Hong Kong could massively backfire on the government, leading to comparisons to the Tiananmen Square crackdown of 1989 and potentially crashing the economy.

For its part, the Hong Kong government seemed to downplay China's descriptions of the protests, with Senior Superintendent Steve Li saying "based on the current situation, we will handle it as violent protest."

Previously, local officials have also distanced themselves from Chinese propaganda about foreign forces controlling the protests. A senior Hong Kong government official told CNN they had "no evidence" of overseas interference, and pointed to local concerns as the chief driver of the protests.

Chinese state media, on the other hand, took the terrorism line and ran with it. State broadcaster CCTV accused protesters of attempting to murder police and said the unrest "obviously has the color of terrorism" which required the government to "resolutely crack down."

Official news agency Xinhua played up comments by an official in Hong Kong that the city risked sliding "into a bottomless abyss if the terror atrocities are allowed to continue," while an editorial in the nationalist tabloid Global Times said "raging mobs" must be "receiving support through nefarious political gain or financial stimulation" and were "without any doubt, similar to terrorists."

Yaqiu Wang, a Hong Kong-based researcher with Human Rights Watch, said the terrorism framing was "extremely concerning."

She pointed to the use of "vaguely and broadly defined 'terrorism' charges" to justify widespread repression in Xinjiang, a region in northwest China with a large Muslim minority. Beijing has been accused of running a huge network of detention camps in Xinjiang, with potentially millions of mostly Uyghur Muslims being processed for "re-education."

Uyghurs have been the chief target of the "terrorist" designation in China, part of a general othering of the non-ethnically Chinese minority which has gone hand in hand with greater repression in the region. Suggesting that Hong Kongers, almost all of whom are Han Chinese, are also terrorists would be a major shift in how Beijing views the city and its relationship to the Chinese metropole.

The World Uyghur Congress, a Germany-based NGO highly critical of China, also said it was "tremendously concerning" that the government was using the term terrorism with regard to Hong Kong.

However, Wang noted that "the contexts of Hong Kong and Xinjiang are vastly different, to launch a 'Xinjiang-style' crackdown in Hong Kong would be hard to do and very costly to Beijing, for reasons such as Hong Kong is a major financial center in Asia and the residents are very digitally connected."

"The extraordinary activism demonstrated by Hong Kong people in the past three months has shown their resolve and competence in defending their freedoms and rights," she said. "Beijing should take note of that."

The Finland-based company expects a weaker dollar and slower economic growth in the U.S. and parts of Europe to dampen the overall handset market this year. About half of Nokia's (NOK) sales are in dollars or currencies tied to it; a weaker dollar makes imports more expensive.

"What spooked us was its outlook for the industry in general," said Rick Franklin, equities analyst at Edward Jones.

Nokia reiterated projections that the industry shipments of handsets will grow 10% this year over last. In the first quarter, though, global shipments rose 17%, suggesting a slowdown in the remainder of the year.

For the quarter that ended March 31, Nokia earned $1.9 billion (1.2 euros), up 25% from the same quarter last year but short of an expected $2.3 billion. Overall sales rose 28% to $20.1 billion (12.6 billion euros), roughly in line with views.

The decision to cancel all departures and inbound flights not already in the air on Monday afternoon was made after thousands of pro-democracy protestors gathered at the airport, the region's third busiest after Beijing and Tokyo.

The disruption ran into a second day Tuesday when all outbound flights were canceled late afternoon because of a large protest at the airport.

Protests have been rocking Hong Kong for months, and the crisis is already having a noticeable effect on the city's economy. Some demonstrations have ended in violent clashes with police.

The airport shutdown is a stark reminder of the risk to global businesses and the city's tourism sector.

More than 74 million passengers traveled to and from the airport last year. It handles 1,100 passenger and cargo flights each day, and serves about 200 destinations around the world.

The airport contributes 5% to Hong Kong's GDP, directly and indirectly, said Frank Chan, Hong Kong's transport secretary, in May.

"This is a disaster for Hong Kong that will cost tens of millions of dollars," said Geoffrey Thomas, editor in chief and managing director of AirlineRatings.com, a website that monitors airlines.

The direct impact of Monday's suspension isn't the only problem, he said.

"Travelers for months to come will cancel and rebook with other airlines to avoid Hong Kong as a hub," Thomas added.

Hong Kong is home to seven Fortune Global 500 companies, including Lenovo and CK Hutchison, and it operates as a regional base for big corporations and major banks that prize its semi-autonomous legal system and close ties to mainland China.

Companies have already reported "serious consequences from the disruption," including lost revenue, disrupted supply chains and shelved investments, the American Chamber of Commerce in Hong Kong said last month.

Fewer visitors, less business

Hong Kong's status as a hub for business travel was already under threat before the protests began.

More business travelers are taking direct flights to mainland China instead of stopping over in Hong Kong, according to a February report compiled by the Hong Kong Tourism Board.

It's still too early to assess the economic impact of Monday's shutdown, said Eleanor Wan, the CEO of BEA Union Investment Management, an investment firm based in Hong Kong.

But she added that the airport closure will have a "negative psychological impact," noting that several countries have already issued travel warnings for the city.

"I'm afraid there will be even fewer visitors coming and fewer hotel bookings," Wan said. She also pointed out that Hong Kong hosts many conventions that keep its hotels and conference centers busy.

Some flights had resumed earlier Tuesday before the latest cancellations happened. But the city's image has already suffered.

"This will severely damage its reputation and it will take a long time to recover," said Thomas, the aviation expert.

The turmoil could also give rivals a leg up. Thomas pointed to places like Singapore as an alternative gateway to China and the rest of Asia that could benefit from Hong Kong's problems.

Cities in mainland China, including Shanghai and Shenzhen, have also gradually developed major financial markets of their own.

If 2020 turns out to be a referendum on Trump's overall performance, he's an underdog. Trump, though, would up his odds significantly by winning over half of the 9% of voters who like him on the economy but not overall -- and he would be a clear favorite if he won the votes of all those who approved of him on the economy but not overall.

So how can Trump pull of this feat? A look at the numbers suggests he'll likely need to do something very different than continue with his current base-first, hardline-immigration and racial-resentment electoral strategy. Trump will probably need to appeal well beyond his older, less educated and white Republican base.

This largely conforms with an earlier analysis by the left-leaning group Navigator Research.

The Trump base (i.e. those who approve of him overall) is overwhelmingly Republican. In total, 88% of voters who approve of Trump say they are either Republican or independents who lean Republican. This is why Trump seems loath to do anything that can alienate Republicans. They are his bedrock. A mere 7% of voters who approve of Trump are Democrats or independents who lean Democrattic. The other 6% are independents who lean toward neither party.

Those who approve of Trump on the economy, but not overall are something else altogether. In an aggregate of our last three CNN polls, 66% say they are Democrats or independents who lean Democratic. Only 23% are Republicans or independents who lean Republican. This makes this group not only more Democratic leaning than the overall Trump approval group, but puts it to the left overall electorate overall.

If Trump wants to reach these voters, he'll need to move beyond appealing to just Republicans.

The differences between these two groups is not just about party, however. It's about demographics as well.

Nearly four-fifths (79%) of Trump approvers are white. Just 2% are black and 9% are Latino. This could help explain why Trump hasn't seen much of a decline in his approval ratings when he makes racist statements.

But while Trump's approval rating hasn't declined, it hasn't gone up much recently, either. It could be because whites make up a significantly smaller portion (61%) of those who disapprove of Trump overall yet do approve of him on the economy. Black voters, on the other hand, see this share rise to 18% among this group. (This is actually larger than their 11% of all voters in our sample.) Latinos jump a little to 14% of the approve on economy though not overall group of the electorate.

This lends itself to the idea of something I noted a few weeks ago: Trump is hurting his chances at reelection with racist statements. He'd be much better off touting his economic record.

Another group Trump would be wise to reach out to would be voters with a college degree.

One of Trump's most foretelling statements of the 2016 campaign occurred when he said, "I love the poorly educated." 70% of those who approve of Trump's overall performance lack a college degree. But if wants to convert some of the people who disapprove of him overall but like him on the economy, he better start to want to win over some better educated folks. Among this group, the non-college share drops to 58%. To put this in perspective, this means that not only is this group more educated than Trump approvers but, also among the overall electorate (58%).

Age, though, is perhaps the most fascinating attribute of those who approve of Trump on the economy but not overall. The median age of Trump approvers is 52. This is older than the age of the median voter overall (50). Not surprisingly, it's also older than the age of the median Democrat or Democratic leaning independent (48). The median age of those who approve of Trump on the economy but not overall is younger than all of these (44). That is, the age gap between Trump approvers and those who approve of Trump on the economy but not overall is double the age gap between Democrats and Trump approvers.

These numbers suggest that either party that gears its message towards older voters could, in fact, be missing a golden opportunity to reach a swing part of the electorate.

Moreover, if Trump views politics through what he sees on cable news, he should keep in mind that the group of voters he may need to win reelection are not anywhere close to cable news' main demographic.

More importantly, these numbers suggest that either party that gears its message towards older voters could, in fact, be missing a golden opportunity to reach a swing part of the electorate.

Trump, for now though, seems more than happy to mostly double down on his base first strategy. It could be the downfall of his bid for a second term.

in stage ie, cancer is found in one area of one organ or tissue that is not part of the lymph system.

a clinical study that lacks a comparison (i.e., a control) group.

A group of foreigners arrived in Edo, i.e. Tokyo.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov declined to confirm widespread international speculation that the accident -- which claimed the lives of at least five nuclear specialists last Thursday -- involved a nuclear-powered cruise missile known as the Burevestnik or Skyfall.

But in a conference call with reporters, Peskov denied that such mishaps would set back Russian efforts to develop advanced military capabilities.

The spokesperson said that only experts could speak with authority on such matters, but added: "Accidents, unfortunately, happen. They are tragedies. But in this particular case, it is important for us to remember those heroes who lost their lives in this accident."

Peskov then repeated an assertion by President Vladimir Putin that Russian efforts to develop such technologies remained "considerably far ahead of the level other countries have managed to achieve."

He also responded to a tweet by President Donald Trump, who said the U.S. was "learning much from the failed missile explosion" and claimed that America has similar, but more advanced, technology.

"It would certainly would be quite strange if a country -- a world superpower that spends more money on defense than all the rest of the countries of the world -- was not involved in such projects," Peskov said, when asked to respond to Trump's statement. "That is why is this is not new information."

Rosatom, Russia's state atomic energy company, confirmed that five of its nuclear specialists were killed in the incident. The total casualty count is still unclear.

Local authorities reported a brief spike in radiation following the incident, while Russia's Defense Ministry said radiation levels were normal.

Asked to comment on the conflicting reports and concerns about the consequences for the local population, Peskov said: "I have nothing to add beyond what I stated. ... I can just assure you that in such a situation all the competent agencies do everything to assure the safety of the citizens of the Russian Federation is fully provided."

According to the official account, the elite scientists killed in the accident -- Alexey Vyushin, Yevgeny Koratayev, Vyacheslav Lipshev, Sergey Pichugin and Vladislav Yanovsky -- were killed during tests on a liquid propulsion system involving isotopes.

Sarov, known during the Cold War as Arzamas-16, is one of Russia's secret cities. Closed to foreigners and accessible only by special permit, Sarov is the rough equivalent to Los Alamos, New Mexico, one of the birthplaces of US nuclear weapons design.

In other words, the test most likely had some nuclear dimension. And the reflexive secrecy of the government of Russian President Vladimir Putin has only further fueled speculation about the cause of the accident.

Here's what we know: authorities in northern Russia detected a brief rise in radiation levels following an explosion at a military training ground there, Russian state news agency TASS reported Thursday.

Severodvinsk has a naval base and shipyard and TASS, citing emergency services, initially said the incident began onboard a ship.

The Arkhangelsk regional governor told TASS that the area around the explosion would not be evacuated. But the reports of the brief radiation spike and the lack of information around the incident raised immediate red flags.

'An unusual component'

While the Russian Ministry of Defense admitted something went wrong, informed observers immediately raised questions about what, exactly, had been going on at the test range.

Jeffrey Lewis, an arms-control expert at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey, was one of the first to suggest that missile accident had an unusual component.

On Twitter, Lewis linked to an August 8 picture captured by satellite imaging company Planet Labs, showing the Serebryanka, a nuclear fuel carrier, near the missile test site in Russia where the explosion and fire broke out.

The ship's presence, he speculated, might have been related to the testing of a nuclear-powered cruise missile.

The Serebrynka, Lewis noted, was the same ship used to recover a nuclear propulsion unit from a failed nuclear-powered cruise missile test last summer off Novaya Zemlya, an archipelago in the Arctic Ocean.

"We are skeptical of the claim that what was being tested was a liquid propellant jet engine," Lewis told CNN, referring to last week's explosion. "We think it was a nuclear-powered cruise missile that they call Burevestnik." The same missile is known by NATO members as SCC-X-Skyfall.

A US official has also told CNN that the explosion was "likely" linked to the Skyfall prototype. US President Donald Trump also made the connection, tweeting on Monday: "The Russian 'Skyfall' explosion has people worried about the air and around the facility, and far beyond. Not good!"

Little public information is available about the Burevestnik/Skyfall. But last year, Putin boasted of new weaponry that he claimed would render US missile defenses obsolete. Showing a video, he said: "As the range is unlimited, the missile can maneuver for as long as necessary."

Questions linger today about whether something dangerous has been released following this incident. According to the local website 29.ru, officials have shut down the Dvina Bay in the White Sea for swimming for a month.

Is it the new Chernobyl? Certainly, no massive plume of radiation has been detected, as happened over Scandinavia before the Soviets acknowledged the 1986 disaster. But official secrecy often fuels fears of a cover-up.

In this case, the accident seems more reminiscent of an incident that happened 19 years ago: the sinking of the nuclear-powered submarine, the Kursk, led to the deaths of more than 100 sailors and was a public-relations disaster for Putin, who was still newly in office.

Today, unlike then, Putin now enjoys a near-total monopoly on Russian media. And the Kremlin thus far is working to contain and control the embarrassing news about the accident at a secret military test range.

Telfair was convicted of criminal possession of a weapon in April after officers found a gun in his car during a 2017 traffic stop.

The 33-year-old former point guard who once played for teams including the Boston Celtics, Portland Trail Blazers, and Minnesota Timberwolves was pulled over in Brooklyn on June 11, 2017 after parking on a center median, making a U-turn off the median and driving without headlights, the district attorney's office said in a news release, citing trial testimony.

The officers who pulled Telfair over reported smelling the odor of marijuana and observed a lit marijuana cigarette in the car's console, the release from the district attorney's office said.

After Telfair and a male passenger were arrested, officers searched the vehicle and recovered a loaded .45 caliber gun in the console, the district attorney's office said.

"This defendant exercised his right to a jury trial and was found guilty of possessing an illegal firearm," Gonzalez said in a statement. "The mandatory prison sentence he received today is required by law and he has now been held accountable for the unlawful conduct."

Derek and Maria Broaddus moved all of their belongings into the Westfield, New Jersey, home between June and August 2014, but they never lived there because of the threatening letters.

The couple bought the home for $1,355,657. They spent about $100,000 on renovations, court documents show. They even attempted to get permission from the city's planning board to raze the house and divide the property into two lots. However, they were denied and put the house on the market.

They sold it in early July for approximately $959,000, according to Zillow, an online real estate database.

The Watcher wrote three letters to the Broaddus family shortly after they moved in, identifying details such as the family's car, the contractors whom they brought in to renovate and even the couple's three children.

"657 Boulevard is anxious for you to move in," one of the letters read, according to New York magazine. "It has been years and years since the young blood ruled the hallways of the house. Have you found all of the secrets it holds yet? Will the young blood play in the basement? Or are they too afraid to go down there alone. I would [be] very afraid if I were them. It is far away from the rest of the house. If you were upstairs you would never hear them scream.

"Will they sleep in the attic? Or will you all sleep on the second floor? Who has the bedrooms facing the street? I'll know as soon as you move in. It will help me to know who is in which bedroom. Then I can plan better."

In 2015, the couple tried to sue the previous tenants, John and Andrea Woods, over claims of fraudulent concealment, intentional and negligent infliction of emotional distress and several other issues related to the sale of the property. The case was dismissed.

The Woodses lived in the house for 23 years without incident. But a few days before they moved out, they received a letter from "The Watcher." However, the Woodses claim that the letter was not threatening and that they discarded it.

The Woodses would not comment on the case or the home, according to their attorney, Richard Kaplow.

A neighbor at 633 Boulevard also reported receiving a letter signed by the Watcher in the same time frame that the Broaddus family received their letters, Derek Broaddus testified in the trial against the Woodses. No other details about that letter were released.

A neighbor identified a man living next door to him as a possible suspect. The Broaddus family hired a private investigator and an ex-FBI profiler to try to find the identity of the Watcher. Derek Broaddus testified that the profiler concluded that it was "someone in their 50s or 60s" and lived nearby; the private investigator staked out the area and believed that the neighbors didn't "seem normal."

The Westfield Police and the Union County prosecutor's office investigated, but no one was arrested. No suspects have been publicly identified.

Neither Westfield Police officer Leonard Lugo, who investigated the case for the Broaddus family, nor the family's attorney responded to a request for comment, and the new owners have not been identified.

According to Deadline, Netflix won a featured rights deal for the story.

Malik's accusation referenced an incident from late February, when India and Pakistan, both nuclear powers, teetered on the brink of war following the Indian bombing of a Pakistani village. "Jai Hind #IndianArmedForces" (Hail India and its Armed Forces), Chopra had tweeted then.

The confrontation happened in the most unlikely place: the BeautyCon summit held in Los Angeles.

But, significantly, the exchange between an Indian actress and a Pakistani questioner also happened at a time when India and Pakistan seem to be once again at the brink of war.

On August 5, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party, which has long wanted to make India a Hindu nation, announced the sudden abrogation of Article 370 and 35A of the Indian Constitution. These provisions (put in place when India and Pakistan were partitioned in 1947) had long granted autonomy to the disputed regions of Jammu and Kashmir, which straddle the border between the two countries. With their repeal, the restive region is now directly under the thumb of the BJP, which has also recently grabbed for itself the unilateral power to declare any individual a "terrorist" without any sort of due process.

"War is not something I am really fond of, but I am patriotic," Chopra went on to say to Malik.

But there should be a line drawn between being patriotic and showing sympathy for the Kashmir predicament. Chopra, between her tweet, the condescending way she began her response to Malik, and the fact that she even welcomed Modi to her wedding to Nick Jonas, shows that she has no sympathy for suffering Kashmiris.

This emerging interpretation of "patriotism" as a justified turning away from the plight of suffering Kashmiris, or Muslims or anyone whom Modi doesn't like is emblematic of what political scientist Kapil Komireddi calls the "cult of Modi."

In Bollywood, this "cult of Modi," with its fervent Hindu zealotry, has set itself to the task of producing films that support the BJP agenda, serving almost as an unofficial propaganda arm of the ruling party. Unsurprisingly, then, even as thousands of troops were marching into Jammu and Kashmir and eight million Kashmiris were aghast at being isolated and silenced, Bollywood film producers had already registered Kashmir-related film titles that they wanted to get under production. These include: "Kashmir is Ours", "The Tricolor (Indian flag) in Kashmir" and "Article 370." In the words of the producer of the Modi biopic who has also registered some of them, "I wanted to explore why one state was granted such privileges. But after the historic redrawing of our map by our Prime Minister Narendra Modi, I have just found the perfect ending for my film. From a film based on history, it is now going to be a historic film."

Since the constitutional abrogation on August 5, the eight million residents of Kashmir have been isolated from the world, with, according to the New York Times, nearly all communications to the outside world, from internet to cell phones and land lines, completely cut off. Curfews keep one and all indoors most of the day. Reports from the few journalists that have been permitted access "found a population that felt besieged, confused, frightened and furious at the seismic events of the week," according to the New York Times. Inhabitants have to beg one or another of the nearly 40,000 soldiers deployed to the region for permission to purchase necessities like milk; baby food is said to be running out in the Valley, and at every break in the curfew hundreds line up for a chance to use one of the landlines that the soldiers have permitted to remain connected.

There is one man who could halt the drumbeat of war in South Asia and he is neither Indian nor Pakistani but American. On July 22, 2019, American President Donald J. Trump played host to Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan. At the press conference that followed the meeting, the Pakistani Prime Minister noted that "only the most powerful state in the world, headed by President Donald Trump" could bring the countries together. For his part, Trump agreed, adding that Prime Minister Modi had also made a similar request. "I think they'd like to see it resolved and I think you'd like to see it resolved," Trump said in July. "If I could help, I would love to be a mediator." According to the Indian Government, Modi did not make the request, a fact they emphasized precisely because Trump's intervention would bring India's power-grab more squarely in the international spotlight.

It is precisely for this last reason that President Trump should act on his offer to mediate.

As the Indian reaction to his offer, and even Priyanka Chopra's dismissive condescension toward the questioning of her own and India's position, demonstrates a callous lack of empathy by a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador. Ironically it also seems to imply that this goodwill ambassador (like the Indian Government) would prefer that the international community continues to ignore the situation. Too deeply immersed in the cult of Modi, many Indians are not interested in saving Kashmiris, and so others must keep their commitments and step up to the plate.Ken Cuccinelli tweaked the famous poem from Emma Lazarus -- whose words, "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free" are long associated with immigration to the US and the nation's history as a haven -- as part of a case for strict new measures pushed Monday by the Trump administration that could dramatically change the legal immigration system.

"Would you also agree that Emma Lazarus's words etched on the Statue of Liberty, 'Give me your tired, give me your poor,' are also a part of the American ethos?" NPR's Rachel Martin asked Cuccinelli on "Morning Edition" in an interview published Tuesday.

"They certainly are: 'Give me your tired and your poor who can stand on their own two feet and who will not become a public charge,'" he replied. "That plaque was put on the Statue of Liberty at almost the same time as the first public charge was passed -- very interesting timing."

On Monday, the Trump administration announced a regulation that makes it easier to reject green card and visa applications. The new rule means many green card and visa applicants could be turned down if they have low incomes or little education, and have used benefits such as most forms of Medicaid, food stamps, and housing vouchers, because they'd be deemed more likely to need government assistance in the future.

Cuccinelli has defended the changes, writing in a CNN op-ed published Tuesday that "self-sufficiency has been a core tenet of the American dream."

"Long-standing federal law has required foreign nationals to rely on their own capabilities and the resources of their families, sponsors and private organizations in their communities to succeed," Cuccinelli wrote.

Cuccinelli was asked about Lazarus' poem on Monday and whether the new immigration changes would merit its removal from the statue's pedestal.

"I do not think, by any means, we're ready to take anything off the Statue of Liberty," he said.

"We have a long history of being one of the most welcoming nations in the world on a lot of bases, whether you be an asylee, whether you be coming here to join your family or immigrating yourself," he said at the White House, adding that the regulation "will include a meaningful analysis of whether they're likely to become a public charge or not."

Strict immigration policies

The Trump administration has taken the toughest stance against legal and illegal immigration of any presidency in modern times.

Under Donald Trump's presidency, the US has fought to curtail the basis on which migrants can claim asylum, publicized large-scale raids by Immigration and Customs Enforcement in an effort to deter would-be undocumented immigrants and backed a Republican Senate effort to create a skills-based immigration system.

Asked two years ago about the proposed skills-based changes -- which ultimately weren't passed -- White House senior adviser Stephen Miller shrugged off a question from CNN's Jim Acosta about whether the Trump administration's efforts amounted to an effort to "change what it means to be an immigrant coming into this country."

Miller responded that as a requirement to be naturalized, "you have to speak English," and continued, "so the notion that speaking English wouldn't be a part of immigration systems would be very ahistorical."

He went on: "Secondly, I don't want to get off into a whole thing about history here, but the Statue of Liberty is a symbol of American liberty lighting the world. The poem that you're referring to was added later (and) is not actually part of the original Statue of Liberty."

Lazarus originally wrote the sonnet, entitled "The New Colossus," to raise funds for the statue's pedestal in 1883. The sculpture itself, which sits in the New York Harbor and was visible on the path to the immigration checkpoint at Ellis Island, was a gift from France to the US.

It was not until 1903 that Lazarus's words were inscribed on a bronze plaque and added to the site 17 years after the statue's original unveiling in 1886.

Some of you have supported the administration because you thought its cruel policies didn't affect "us" -- only people that some of us probably didn't care about or may have actively disliked: Mexicans, jihadists, undocumented workers and others. You didn't care about the Muslim ban. You didn't care when hundreds of Central American and Mexican children were separated at the border. Heck, you didn't even care when a 6-year-old Indian girl died at the southern border.

But Monday morning's news of the administration's new ruling lays bare its full cruelty and will affect millions of legal immigrants (including thousands of Indians) who will be punished for making use of public assistance programs, such as public housing and food stamps (no matter how temporarily) they are legally entitled to.

I've been saying, relatively quietly, for three years now, that Trump's goal -- and that of advisers like Stephen Miller -- is a nation with zero new immigration of brown and black people (they're hoping thousands of Norwegians will happily move here instead!) and hurting the folks already here.

Many of you likely supported Trump for reasons I've heard from people I know very well: the generous tax cuts for the wealthy and/or the tough talk on terrorism (Indians tend to not care as much about abortion or guns or the Supreme Court). He said we were "very, very special people." He appears to have hired more Indian-Americans in prominent roles than any other minority (hello, Ajit Pai, Nikki Haley, Seema Verma, Raj Shah, Neil Chatterjee and many more).

But you don't get to pick and choose which parts of the Trump era you like, as if it's some kind of buffet. As my wise mom says, you're responsible for everything on your plate. As many folks have pointed out, saying "I'm here for the tax cuts, but not the racism," isn't an option any longer.

If you continue to blindly support the administration after today, you are complicit in NEW problems about to hit millions in this country.

I know some of you are probably thinking that it's OK for the government to deny green cards to poor people who came here legally. That's because of a certain kind of educated brown privilege we don't recognize or talk about (so many of us arrived here with some of the best degrees in the world, including from the Indian Institute of Technology, Indian Institute of Management and, in my case, from St. Stephen's College, Delhi).

It's the same reason so many Indians love talking endlessly about the stats that purport to show Indian-Americans as the richest and most successful ethnic group in this country. But folks like Sudha Acharya of the South Asian Council for Social Services can tell you about the number of Indian Americans struggling in NYC alone, using the food pantry and other services SACSS provides. And I can tell you about the time I met my first Indian-American homeless man. Many of you who have been to parties in our home over the years have met him, too: Ravi is a waiter who lives in a homeless shelter and works multiple jobs to get back on his feet (he also doesn't shy away from talking about his situation, mainly so people know there are Indians like him, too).

Thanks for reading this far. I know I may lose some friends by writing this. Some relatives may stop talking to me and I'll likely get hate mail from some of the Indians who seem to spend their days being outraged online, but I just had to share my thoughts. Unquestioning support of any leader anywhere in the world diminishes us all.

I leave you with the story of Raja Krishnamoorthi, the Democratic Congressman from the Chicago area. He talks often and eloquently about how he came to this country as a child and how his family lived in public housing and, yes, used food stamps. He went on to have a successful business career and is now in the halls of Congress. If this new rule were in place when he was little, his family would never have gotten green cards.

Think about all the good that has come from the Congressman's life, all the positive contributions he and his family have made to this country. If the rules change as the President wants, opportunities will be lost for so many people.

I want to live in an America that gives us more Raja Krishnamoorthis, not fewer. And not just because he's Indian.

His wife, Juana, and children are desperate to find him.

Juana says she hasn't slept since her husband was detained.

Gomez-Jorge was working at the Morton Koch Foods plant Wednesday when the raids occurred and has not been in contact with his family since.

Juana invited CNN into the family's home Monday to discuss how the raids have affected their family.

"We don't know where he is," she said. "We don't know if he's dead or alive."

The couple has four children, ages 11, 9, 6 and a toddler, Juana says. In a video that has now gone viral, Juana's oldest child, Magdalena, was seen crying after her father was detained.

Juana says her daughter loves her father and, like all of her children, is sad that he is gone. "Her father is very important to her. Her heart was moved," she said of her daughter.

"My children are sad. They are worried," the mother said. "I don't know where he is."

Juana says she doesn't work and depends on her husband to bring in all their income. She says she doesn't have any family in the area.

She is afraid she won't be able to afford rent, utilities or whatever bail she may need to get her husband out of detention. She thinks it could be as much as $6,000 and doesn't know how or where she would get that much money.

"I feel very powerless. I don't have a job, only my husband works. I'm thinking, what am I going to do?" she asked.

Juana says she and her husband have lived in the United States for more than a decade and came here for better opportunities.

"He didn't come here to rob anybody," Juana explained. "He came here to work. It is out of necessity."

Juana tells CNN that if her husband is deported she will have no choice but to return to Guatemala with her children in tow. The kids were all born in the United States. They have never been to Guatemala and have told her they don't want to go, she said.

The fact that her 11-year-old daughter Magdalena's tearful pleas went viral has not escaped her.

Juana says she is frightened because the entire world has seen her daughter's face.

She says the family has had interactions with people that have scared them since the video was taken. Juana says that the family has received strange calls with some people even inquiring about adopting Magdalena.

The video has been shared so widely that even US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) responded.

"I understand that the girl is upset, and I get that. But her father committed a crime," Mark Morgan, the acting commissioner of CBP told CNN's Jake Tapper on State of the Union on Sunday.

ICE spokesman Bryan Cox told CNN Monday that Gomez-Jorge does not have any prior criminal convictions. The father of four was arrested while "working without legal authorization," Cox said.

Cox said that although Gomez-Jorge has not been convicted of a crime, the US Attorney Southern District of Mississippi will decide whether he or any of the people detained last week will be deported.

All Gomez-Jorge's family can do now is search for him and wait for his release.

Magdalena seems uncomfortable with the fame she's garnered. She was very quiet when CNN visited. She worked on her homework and played with her younger siblings after school, sharing soda and candy.

The 11-year-old said her favorite subject is math, so much so that she wants to be a math teacher when she grows up.

But right now, she just wants her dad to come home. Magdalena says a lot of her friends had parents who were detained in the raids and a large number of them, like her, still have a parent in detention.

Her teachers didn't address the raid when she returned to school the day it occurred, she says.

Juana says she will continue to search for her husband and is looking for a lawyer to help the family. She's being strong for her kids, telling her daughter not to cry and that they will find a way to pay bond so Gomez-Jorge can come home.

"For my children, I want to find him," she said. "It's like there has been a death."

The long-anticipated public charge rule makes it more difficult for immigrants who rely on government assistance like Medicaid, subsidized housing and food stamps to obtain legal status.

Monday's announcement falls in line with the administration's attempts to curb legal immigration, and favor wealthier and more educated immigrants.

Here's what to know:

Who does the rule apply to?

The rule applies to people who are seeking to come to or trying to remain in the United States. Notably, it'll affect people who are trying to obtain lawful permanent status, otherwise known as a green card.

What is public charge?

The "public charge" provision dates back at least to the Immigration Act of 1882. Federal lawmakers at the time wanted to make sure that immigrants would be able to take care of themselves and not end up a public burden.

Under current regulations put in place in 1996, the term is defined as someone who is "primarily dependent" on government assistance, meaning it supplies more than half their income.

But it only counted cash benefits, such as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families or Supplemental Security Income from Social Security. The administration's new rule widens the definition of who is expected to be dependent on the government by including more benefit programs.

Immigration officials can take into account an applicant's financial resources, health, education, skills, family status and age. But few people are rejected on these relatively narrow grounds, experts said.

"It's totally changing the conception of what it means to be a public charge," said David Bier, immigration policy analyst at the libertarian CATO Institute.

Which programs are included?

The rule will effect people who receive most forms of Medicaid, food stamps and housing vouchers.

It doesn't include benefits such as emergency medical assistance, disaster relief, national school lunch programs, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and food pantries and homeless shelters.

The rule includes immigrants who use one or more designated public benefits for 12 months within a 36-month period. Each benefit is counted separately, meaning if two benefits are used in a month, it'll count as two months.

How many people does this impact?

It's hard to know exactly how many people will be affected because it's largely subject to the discretion of the officer who will take into account whether someone is likely to become a public charge.

According to the Department of Homeland Security, however, the rule is expected to impact roughly 382,000 people seeking to adjust their immigration status. Immigration advocates, however, say millions of people could be affected by the regulation.

Immigration advocates have also argued that the rule goes beyond what Congress intended and would discriminate against those from poorer countries, keep families apart and prompt legal residents to forgo needed public aid, which could also impact their US citizen children.

"The rule reflects a dark vision of the United States -- as an unwelcoming nation that wants to keep out people who seek to join their family, work hard, and climb the economic ladder -- based on the erroneous assumption that they won't contribute to our communities, our economy, and our nation," said Robert Greenstein, president of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.

What about undocumented immigrants?

Undocumented immigrants are largely ineligible for public assistance so they generally would not be affected, unless an avenue opens up for them to apply for green cards or visas.

What about US citizen children?

The regulation doesn't apply to benefits used by US citizen children, according to a U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services official.

Are there exceptions?

There are exceptions to the rule, such as benefits received by active duty member of the military and their spouses and children; Medicaid for pregnant women and people under 21 years old; and emergency medical care.

The rule also doesn't impact refugees or asylum seekers, as well as certain trafficking victims, victims of domestic violence, among others.

Do immigrants use public benefits?

The CATO Institute released a study last year reviewing the use rates of some benefit programs by immigrants and native-born Americans. The group found that "immigrants are less likely to consume welfare benefits and, when they do, they generally consume a lower dollar value of benefits than native-born Americans."

When will this take effect?

The rule will take effect October 15. Until then, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services is "continuing to work towards finalizing the processes and procedures that will be required to implement the final public charge rule," according to a USCIS official.

The rule will only apply to applications and petition on or after the effective date, according to the agency.

Over the next year, the beverage company plans to unveil new Dasani packaging and products, including aluminum cans and bottles, "How2Recycle" labels and improved Dasani water coolers.

Coca-Cola will continue to sell Dasani in plastic bottles too, but it will reduce the amount of plastic in those containers through a process called lightweighting. Coke is also launching a new hybrid bottle made with up to 50% recycled plastic and renewable, plant-based materials.

As consumers grow concerned about plastic pollution, big companies are pledging to reduce packaging waste. Coca-Cola produced 3.3 million tons of plastic in 2017, it disclosed in a recent report by the Ellen MacArthur foundation. And environmental activists have called out the company for contributing to the problem. A recent report published by Greenpeace called Coca-Cola "the most prolific polluter" compared to other top brands because in a series of global beach cleanups, Coca-Cola branded packages were collected the most.

"We believe that all packaging materials have benefits, and, if managed properly, can be turned into valuable resources for reuse," Coca-Cola said in response to the report. "We're prepared to do our part."

Environmental commitments may help protect the company's image.

Coca-Cola has promised to collect and recycle the equivalent of every bottle or can it sells by 2030. It's also committed to making its bottles and cans out of at least 50% recycled material in the next 11 years. And recently, Coca-Cola said it has withdrawn from the Plastics Industry Association because the lobbying group took positions that "were not fully consistent with our commitments and goals."

The changes to Dasani could help Coca-Cola reach those goals and remove about 1 billion virgin plastic bottles, made with non-recycled plastic, from its supply chain over the next five years.

It'll have some competition.

PepsiCo has also announced that it will start selling its Aquafina water brand in aluminum cans at US fast food and restaurant chains as soon as next year. The company is also testing out a broader rollout to retail stores.

Greening Dasani

Using aluminum bottles and cans may help increase the number of of Dasani products that get recycled. Aluminum is recycled more easily than plastic, and the "How2Recycle" labels should help clarify how the package should be recycled.

The company is also launching a new version of the Dasani PureFill water dispensers, which allow people fill their own bottles or cups with Dasani products, including flavored and sparkling waters.

Environmentalists argue the best way to eliminate waste is to reuse containers. But the "solution can't be one thing," said Bruce Karas, vice president of environment and sustainability for Coca-Cola North America.

Coca-Cola's plan is to "create a future where the consumer has a number of choices" that can reduce their impact on the environment, he said. Launching several types of products will help Coca-Cola learn about consumer behavior, he added.

Making Dasani special

Innovations could not only help Coca-Cola reach its goals, but revitalize interest in Dasani.

"We really think about the future of this brand differentiating on sustainability credentials," said Lauren King, brand director for Dasani, who noted that Dasani is growing along with the bottled water trend.

Sales of packaged water have been growing steadily over the past several years, according to a report published by the research brand Mintel in February. The sector will probably continue to grow, Mintel said, because consumers are ditching sugary drinks for healthier options like water and seltzer.

But sales could take a hit if customers decide to fill up their own bottles from the tap instead of buying water in plastic bottles to help protect the environment.

Dasani also faces increased competition from store-brand water brands, which consumers often buy in bulk.

"Mainstream water brands like Dasani were under pressure," Coca-Cola CEO James Quincey said during an analyst call discussing the company's second quarter earnings. "There's some challenge there," he said.

But Coca-Cola's premium water brand, Smartwater, is doing "really well," he said. That may be because it offers certain ingredients people wouldn't find in plain tap water, including added electrolytes or antioxidants.

Apple on Monday released the first look at the series, which is set to debut this fall.

No actual footage of the stars in action is shown in the minute-long sneak peek, but moody shots of hallways set the tone for the preview.

The overlapping voices of Witherspoon, Carell and Aniston are also heard in a cacophony of dramatic moments.

"I'm a journalist, I can feel when the world needs me," Carell can be heard saying at one point.

"People want to trust that the person telling them the news of the world is an honest person," Witherspoon's character says at another.

"The Morning Show" was one of several shows Apple highlighted earlier this year at an event previewing the content coming to the forthcoming streaming service. (CNN's Brian Stelter is a consultant on the project, for which his book was used as background.)

The show, Witherspoon said at the event, pulls back "the curtain on "the power dynamics between men and women in the high-stakes world of morning news shows."

"It's a real insiders view into the lives of the people who help America wake up every day," she added.

The "Hunger Games" star put up a photo of what appears to be beautiful sunset scene on a beach. It appeared on his official Instagram account early Tuesday.

The caption jumped right into the ending of his marriage of less than a year to the singer/actress.

"Hi all," Hemsworth wrote, "Just a quick note to say that Miley and I have recently separated and I wish her nothing but health and happiness going forward."

Over the weekend People magazine reported that the couple, who married in December 2018 after an almost decadelong, on-again, off-again relationship, had broken up.

"Liam and Miley have agreed to separate at this time," a rep for Cyrus told the publication in a statement. "Ever-evolving, changing as partners and individuals, they have decided this is what's best while they both focus on themselves and careers. They still remain dedicated parents to all of their animals they share while lovingly taking this time apart. Please respect their process and privacy."

CNN has reached out to representatives for the couple.

In his Instagram caption, Hemsworth, 29, also appeared to address a Daily Mail Australia story which had been picked up by other outlets quoting him as saying about the split, "You don't understand what it's like."

"This is a private matter and I have not made, nor will I be making, any comments to any journalists or media outlets," Hemsworth wrote. "Any reported quotes attributed to me are false. Peace and Love."

The U.S. Trade Representative announced a delay in new tariffs on several categories of Chinese-made consumer goods until December 15. Those goods include cell phones, laptop computers, video game consoles, certain toys, computer monitors, and certain items of footwear and clothing.

The Dow was up more than 500 points, or 2%, in mid-morning trading following Monday's nearly 400-point drop. The S&P 500 and Nasdaq both rose more than 2% as well.

Tech stocks were among the market's biggest winners. Apple surged 5% while chipmakers Nvidia and Intel were up more than 3%.

Sneaker giant Nike rose 3% as well while toy makers Hasbro and Mattel soared 6% and 8% respectively. Best Buy soared more than 7%.

The news was announced shortly after China's Ministry of Commerce said that vice premier Liu Heying spoke with U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin about trade issues and will talk again in two weeks.

The apparent ceasefire in the trade war delighted investors and overshadowed earlier concerns that a spike in a key measure of inflation reported Tuesday morning could complicate matters for the Federal Reserve.

The Fed recently cut interest rates for the first time since 2008 and is expected to lower rates further due to a sluggish global economy that's hurting as a result of the US-China trade war and weak demand in the UK and Europe.

The so-called core consumer price index, which excludes food and energy costs, rose more than forecast in July for the second straight month and has now increased 2.2% over the past year. That's the biggest increase in six months.

The Fed typically raises rates when inflation is creeping higher, but the central bank has been criticized by President Trump for possibly hiking rates too aggressively in the past few years and being too slow to cut rates in 2019.

The return of market volatility in recent weeks is unnerving investors, especially those looking to save for retirement. That's especially the case since stocks have been the only game in town for conservative investors.

Bond yields have continued to plunge. The benchmark US-10 Year Treasury is now hovering around 1.68%, not far from its lowest level in about three years, while the 30-Year Treasury is approaching an all-time low near 2.1%.

Yields in the U.K. are near zero as well while long-term rates in Japan and much of Europe are now in negative territory.

The 35-year-old was a seven-year veteran who temporarily was assigned to a detail surrounding Yankee Stadium.

The officer left a note behind, the law enforcement official said. He was off-duty at the time, two law enforcement sources told CNN.

Of the eight NYPD officer suicides, six have happened since June. The recent cluster has rattled the department, with leaders trying to come up with a way to tell the rank and file that it's OK to ask for help.

Over the past five years, the NYPD has averaged between four and five suicides a year, Police Commissioner James O'Neill said in June at a news conference that was called after the department surpassed its average.

Developing story. More to come.

Newark is taking the advice of the US Environmental Protection Agency and providing bottled water from four city centers, Mayor Ras Baraka and Gov. Phil Murphy said in a joint statement.

The city "has gradually gone from absolutely denying there are any lead problems to now admitting they have an issue," said Erik D. Olson, a drinking water expert at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a nonprofit environmental advocacy group that has taken legal action against the city.

No safe level of lead

There is no safe level of lead in drinking water, experts say. Because even low levels have been linked to serious, irreversible damage to developing brains, children and pregnant women are most vulnerable. In healthy adults, exposure to lead is associated with fertility issues, heart and kidney problems, mental dysfunction and high blood pressure.

The City of Newark exceeds every other large New Jersey municipality in the number of children younger than 6 with elevated blood lead levels, according to a recent New Jersey Department of Health report. Newark's lead levels are also among the highest in the nation -- "approximately the same" as those measured by independent testing in Flint, Michigan, before corrective measures were taken, according to a Natural Resources Defense Council report.

In 2015, at least 10% of tested addresses in Newark showed 27 parts per billion or more of lead in their water, according to the council. This is nearly twice the EPA's guideline of 15 parts per billion. More recently -- since January 1, 2018 -- at least six samples exceeded 30 parts per billion, and one residence sample showed levels as high as 182 parts per billion, according to a court document filed by the council.

Where is the problem? Not at the source but in the pipes, the city says.

A Garden State problem

Newark says its complex water system supplies about 80 million gallons per day of water to more than 300,000 customers within the city and its surrounding communities.

The city uses two sources for water. The Pequannock Water Treatment Plant, in West Milford, supplies the North, West, South and Central Wards, while the Wanaque Water Treatment Plant mainly supplies the East Ward.

Water leaving both these treatment plants is lead-free, the city says, and the pipes that transport it, which are mostly made of iron and steel, do not add the heavy metal.

It is only when the water travels through service pipes connecting water mains in the street to individual homes that lead can enter, a city website explains. (Lead may also enter drinking water from the plumbing in individual homes.)

Olson said the Natural Resources Defense Council learned in 2017 that Newark had elevated lead levels. But when the advocacy group approached city officials to offer help, "we didn't get anywhere." In 2018, the nonprofit teamed up with the Newark Education Workers Caucus and began litigation against the city, which is ongoing.

The complaint alleges that the City of Newark failed to install and maintain the corrosion control treatment necessary to prevent water corrosion on service lines and lead plumbing, allowing lead to leach into drinking water.

A September 17 motion to dismiss the complaint, submitted by New Jersey Attorney General Gurbir Grewal, states that Newark is in compliance "with the process required for water systems that are no longer deemed to have optimized corrosion control."

Quick-fix fails

The long-term solution to Newark's problem is pulling out the lead service lines, according to both the city and Olson. As a short-term fix, the Newark Department of Water and Sewer Utilities distributed more than 35,000 lead-safe water filters and cartridges to affected residents for free this year.

However, the EPA said in a Friday letter to Baraka and Catherine McCabe, commissioner of the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, that lead levels exceeded 15 parts per billion (the federal water standard) in several samples taken since the filters were distributed.

"Use of the specific filtration devices distributed by Newark may not be reliably effective, in this particular situation, in reducing lead concentrations to below that standard," the letter says.

Olson said the filters are complex, with installation and maintenance instructions printed in small type, and so door-to-door training may be necessary. Until the filter program is fixed, he said, bottled water is needed.

The EPA recommended the same in its letter, which was meant to "address concerns" and inspire enforcement of the Safe Drinking Water Act. Meanwhile, the agency is "actively providing technical assistance to the city and state, including work to optimize and assess the city's corrosion control program," the EPA said in a statement obtained by CNN.

Newark's mayor has not responded to a request for comment.

No word on if she was actually tipsy at a party in Los Angeles on Saturday night, but clips of the singer dancing and lip-syncing her own music have spawned a #DrunkTaylor hashtag on social media.

"Threw a party to celebrate with the people who made the ME! & YNTCD videos with me- and we had so much fun that 'Drunk Taylor' is trending on Twitter. CHEERS," Swift wrote on Instagram.

She had gathered with friends to celebrate her 10 VMA nominations. Guests at the party included Laverne Cox, Hayley Kiyoko, the Haim sisters and A'keria Davenport.

Swift's new album, "Lover," is set to be released August 23.

Swift took home the inaugural Icon Award during the show, which aired on Fox.

She used her acceptance speech to support the US Women's National soccer team's fight against the gender pay gap.

The team's co-captain, Alex Morgan, presented the superstar singer with the award.

The players have become visible advocates about the need for pay equality among the sexes -- given that they're not paid the same as their male counterparts.

"Get online, talk about it, let people know how you feel about it because what happened to them is unfair," Swift said. "It's happening everywhere, and they are heroes and icons for standing up."

"Riverdale" took home four surfboard trophies, including Choice Drama TV Show, Drama Actor and Actress for stars Cole Sprouse and Lili Reinhart, and Choice Ship for the pair.

"Avengers: Endgame" was also was a big winner, scoring awards in the action film category for Choice Movie, Choice Actor for Robert Downey Jr., Choice Actress for Scarlett Johansson and Choice Villain for Josh Brolin.

Musical group The Jonas Brothers were awarded the Decade Award.

The following is the complete list of winners:

MOVIES

Choice Action Movie

"Avengers: Endgame"

Choice Action Movie Actor

Robert Downey Jr. -- "Avengers: Endgame"

Choice Action Movie Actress

Scarlett Johansson -- "Avengers: Endgame"

Choice Sci-Fi/Fantasy Movie

"Aladdin"

Choice Sci-Fi/Fantasy Movie Actor

Will Smith -- "Aladdin"

Choice Sci-Fi/Fantasy Movie Actress

Naomi Scott -- "Aladdin"

Choice Drama Movie

"After"

Choice Drama Movie Actor

Hero Fiennes Tiffin -- "After"

Choice Drama Movie Actress

Josephine Langford -- "After"

Choice Comedy Movie

"Crazy Rich Asians"

Choice Comedy Movie Actor

Noah Centineo -- "The Perfect Date"

Choice Comedy Movie Actress

Laura Marano -- "The Perfect Date"

Choice Movie Villain

Josh Brolin -- "Avengers: Endgame"

Choice Summer Movie

"Spider-Man: Far From Home"

Choice Summer Movie Actor

Tom Holland -- "Spider-Man: Far From Home"

Choice Summer Movie Actress

Zendaya -- "Spider-Man: Far From Home"

TELEVISION

Choice Drama TV Show

"Riverdale"

Choice Drama TV Actor

Cole Sprouse -- "Riverdale"

Choice Drama TV Actress

Lili Reinhart -- "Riverdale"

Choice Sci-Fi/Fantasy TV Show

"Shadowhunters"

Choice Sci-Fi/Fantasy TV Actor

Jared Padalecki -- "Supernatural"

Choice Sci-Fi/Fantasy TV Actress

Katherine McNamara -- "Shadowhunters"

Choice Action TV Show

"MacGyver"

Choice Action TV Actor

Stephen Amell -- "Arrow"

Choice Action TV Actress

Gabrielle Union -- "L.A.'s Finest"

Choice Comedy TV Show

"The Big Bang Theory"

Choice Comedy TV Actor

Jaime Camil -- "Jane the Virgin"

Choice Comedy TV Actress

Nina Dobrev -- "Fam"

Choice TV Villain

Cameron Monaghan -- "Gotham"

Choice Reality TV Show

"America's Got Talent"

Choice Throwback TV Show

"Friends"

Choice Summer TV Show

"Stranger Things"

Choice Summer TV Actor

Noah Schnapp -- "Stranger Things"

Choice Summer TV Actress

Millie Bobby Brown -- "Stranger Things"

MUSIC

Choice Male Artist

Shawn Mendes

Choice Female Artist

Billie Eilish

Choice Music Group

Why Don't We

Choice Country Artist

Dan + Shay

Choice Latin Artist

CNCO

Choice R&B/Hip-Hop Artist

Cardi B

Choice Rock Artist

Panic! At The Disco

Choice Song: Female Artist

Lauren Jauregui -- "Expectations"

Choice Song: Male Artist

Louis Tomlinson -- "Two of Us"

Choice Song: Group

BLACKPINK -- "DDU-DU DDU-DU"

Choice Pop Song

Ariana Grande -- "thank u, next"

Choice Country Song

Dan + Shay -- "Speechless"

Choice Electronic/Dance Song

Ellie Goulding, Diplo, & Red Velvet -- "Close to Me (Red Velvet Remix)"

Choice Latin Song

CNCO -- "Pretend"

Choice R&B/Hip-Hop Song

Lil Nas X (feat. Billy Ray Cyrus) -- "Old Town Road [Remix]"

Choice Rock Song

Panic! At The Disco -- "Hey Look Ma, I Made It"

Choice Breakout Artist

Billie Eilish

Choice International Artist

BTS

Choice Collaboration

BTS (feat. Halsey) -- "Boy With Luv"

Choice Summer Song

"Señorita" -- Shawn Mendes & Camila Cabello

Choice Summer Female Artist

Halsey

Choice Summer Male Artist

Shawn Mendes

Choice Summer Group

Jonas Brothers

Choice Summer Tour

BTS -- "BTS World Tour Love Yourself: Speak Yourself Tour"

Choice Song From A Movie

"A Whole New World" (End Title) (from "Aladdin") -- ZAYN & Zhavia Ward

Choice Ship

Lili Reinhart & Cole Sprouse -- "Riverdale"

Choice Comedian

Ethan & Grayson Dolan

Choice Male Athlete

Stephen Curry

Choice Female Athlete

Serena Williams

DIGITAL

Choice Female Web Star

Emma Chamberlain

Choice Male Web Star

David Dobrik

Choice Comedy Web Star

The Dolan Twins

Choice Social Star

Noah Centineo

Choice Fashion/Beauty Web Star

Hannah Meloche

Choice Gamer

PewDiePie

Choice YouTuber

Sam and Colby

Choice Fandom

#BTSARMY

Choice Music Web Star

Annie LeBlanc

Teen Choice Take Note Award -- Presented by Crayola

Kayva Kopparapu

Sebastian and Brandon Martinez

Marsai Martin

Leon "Kida" Burns (Kida the Great)

Celai West

Braxton Moral

Mari Copeny

Logan Guleff

"Bachelor in Paradise" stars Ashley Iaconetti and Jared Haibon officially tied the knot this weekend, according to People magazine. The lavish Rhode Island bash was packed with familiar "Bachelor" faces, and the ceremony was even officiated by "Bachelor" producer Elan Gale.

READ MORE: The business of the "Bachelor" franchise

The two lovebirds first met on the second season of "Bachelor in Paradise," where jilted contestants from "The Bachelor" and "The Bachelorette" meet and mingle and who knows, sometimes get married! The couple got engaged while filming Season 5 of the show in June of last year.

"Love works in mysterious ways," Haibon wrote in a post-engagement Instagram. Hey, "Bachelor" franchise, that's not a bad catchphrase!

Nguyen, known under his stage name Dango Nu Yen, appeared in several episodes of the third season of the Atlanta-based hit show about a zombie apocalypse.

He played a guard for the town of Woodbury who worked for The Governor, a villain who frequently fought with the show's protagonist Rick Grimes.

After his stint on the show ended, Nguyen appeared in other TV shows including "The Red Road" and "Banshee," according to his IMDB profile.

The actor served on the Athens-Clarke County Fire Department for nearly 20 years before leaving to pursue a career in the entertainment industry, the fire department said in a Facebook post.

He was a sergeant with the department before working as an actor, the post said.

Nguyen had also trained as a professional wrestler prior to becoming a firefighter, according to his IMDB page.

"He will always be remembered for his physical and mental strength," the Facebook post read. "He was an aggressive and tenacious firefighter and first responder."

Nguyen is survived by his wife, Michelle, and family, the Athens-Clarke County Fire department said.

Netflix has announced that is the date Season 3 of the "The Crown" will debut.

This time around there's a new queen as Academy Award winner Olivia Colman takes over the role from Claire Foy, who played Queen Elizabeth II the first two seasons.

Netflix shared a snippet of Colman in character in a tweet on Monday.

Colman looks every inch the royal as she is seen pacing in a room, dressed in an evening gown with a royal blue sash and a crown before she turns and stares piercingly at the camera.

The role is totally in the wheelhouse for the actress, who won the best actress Academy Award for her portrayal as England's Queen Anne in "The Favourite."

Colman may be able to continue that award streak with "The Crown."

Her predecessor, Foy, won a Primetime Emmy, a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors Guild Award for her portrayal of the current British monarch.

On Monday the singer/songwriter posted a black-and-white photo of herself in a bra and panty set on her official Instagram account.

Rexha shared a story in which she said she "recently had a MALE music executive tell me that I was getting too old and that my brand was 'confusing.'"

"Because... I'm a songwriter and I post sexy pics on my Instagram and that's not what female songwriters are suppose to do, especially for my age. I'm 29," the caption read. "I'm fed up with being put in a box."

She went on to say that she makes her own rules and added "I'm tired of women getting labeled as 'hags' when they get old and guys get labeled as sexy with age."

"Anyways, I'm turning 30 on August 30 and you know what, I'm not running away from it," Rexha wrote. "I'm not gonna lie about my age or sing songs that I feel will sell better because they sound 'younger.'"

Rexha is known for pushing back.

In January she used her Instagram account to say that unnamed fashion designers were declining to dress her for the Grammys as they said she was "too big."

"Empower women to love their bodies instead of making girls and women feel less then by their size," she wrote in the caption of a video of her discussing the issue. "We are beautiful any size!"

Autopsies confirmed the bodies found last Wednesday in northern Manitoba are those of Kam McLeod, 19, and Bryer Schmegelsky, 18, according to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

"The RCMP can also confirm that the two died in what appears to be suicides by gunfire. While both individuals were deceased for a number of days before they were found, the exact time and date of their deaths are not known," the law enforcement agency said in a statement. "However, there are strong indications that they had been alive for a few days since last seen in July and during the extensive search efforts in the Gillam area."

Authorities said next of kin have been notified and offered support.

Two firearms were found with the teens and forensic analysis is underway to confirm whether they are connected to the three British Columbia homicides, the RCMP said.

The search gripped the world for weeks after the suspects allegedly killed a North Carolina woman and her Australian boyfriend.

Chynna Deese, 24, and her boyfriend, Lucas Fowler, 23, were found shot dead on a remote highway in northern British Columbia on July 15.

As police searched for clues to the killers' whereabouts and panicked residents shuttered their homes, the body of University of British Columbia professor Leonard Dyck was discovered four days later in northern British Columbia, a few hundred miles away from the first crime scene.

A burned-out camper believed to have been used by the two suspects was found a mile from Dyck's body. Investigators believe the teens killed all three victims, and police scoured rugged terrain for clues to where they might be hiding.

By late July, authorities were investigating signs suggesting the teens were in northern Manitoba, at least a two-day drive east of the sites of the British Columbia killings. Police urged residents near Manitoba's Nelson River to remain inside, lock their doors and report anything suspicious.

An end to the search

But last Wednesday, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said it believed the suspects' bodies were found in northern Manitoba.

Authorities had been searching the area for weeks after a Toyota RAV4 that authorities believe the teens stole from Dyck was found on fire and discarded July 22 outside Gillam, a small Manitoba town situated along Nelson River and Stephens Lake.

The teens' bodies were found in "dense brush" about 5 miles from where the burned-out vehicle was located, said Jane MacLatchy, assistant commissioner of the Manitoba RCMP.

Discovery of a damaged boat and other clues

Though police already were searching areas near the burned RAV4, they said they narrowed the search even further on August 2 when they found items of interest near the Nelson River.

Police first said they found a damaged aluminum boat along the river that day. Later, they said they'd separately found "items directly linked to the suspects" that same day on the shoreline.

Police haven't said whether the boat is connected to the teens, and they haven't said what those other items were.

The teens' bodies were found within a kilometer from where the unspecified items were discovered, MacLatchy said.

The motive still is unclear

The investigation is not closed even though authorities believe the suspects were the killers, said Kevin Hackett, the RCMP assistant commissioner in British Columbia.

Investigators, for instance, still are trying to determine a motive -- and that will be difficult, Hackett said.

"The examination of the area where (their bodies) were located ... is still being dealt with and searched. So there may be additional items that could help in that regard -- identifying a motive, etc. -- but we don't have that information yet," he said.

But police say they are sure the killings are connected, and they have nothing to indicate anyone else was involved.

"There was significant evidence that linked our suspects to both crime scenes," Hackett said last week.

Mass shootings, like the murder of 22 people in El Paso on August 3, are not caused by video games. They are not simply caused by mental illness. And we should not be surprised that this kind of violence eventually found our community. In today's America, it was only a matter of time.

Racism and anti-immigrant hysteria have long shaped the tragic side of our American experience, but the spread of racism and violence now takes a new form that departs from our history.

When President Donald Trump describes Mexican immigrants as "rapists" and "bringing crime," or refers to undocumented immigrants as individuals who "infest our country" -- he speaks not as America's President but as an emissary of hate. And his vilification and fear-mongering connect with those who are open to receiving it.

The seeds of terror we saw that August day are transmitted day and night on Fox News, the most watched cable news channel in the country. They are amplified by right-wing websites like Breitbart, and in messages forced onto local news broadcasts by Sinclair Media.

They metastasize on Facebook. And they filter up from grotesque online havens for white supremacists who preach intolerance and worship violence.

At a rally in Florida this past May, Trump asked how America could stop immigrants, asylum seekers and refugees from coming into the country.

"Shoot them!" someone yelled back.

As the crowd roared its approval, the President smiled and brushed the comment aside.

Every media outlet that covers Trump's rallies uncritically is serving dangerous ends. This language of fear and intimidation is not, as some would have it, simply political theater; it actually changes our behavior. Counties that hosted a Trump rally in 2016 saw a 226% increase in hate crimes, according to an analysis by The Washington Post. And we've seen a rise in these kinds of crimes since Trump's been a candidate and in office.

Within 24 hours of Trump signing an executive order attempting to ban people from seven Muslim majority countries in January 2017, the mosque in Victoria, Texas, was burned to the ground. After he warned of waves of asylum seekers coming to get us -- and entertained the lie that George Soros, a wealthy Jew, was financing a migrant caravan -- a man walked into a Pittsburgh synagogue and murdered men and women over a fear of Jewish-financed caravans.

Right before a terrorist came to our community to kill 22 innocent people, police believe he wrote a manifesto that used the President's language of "invasion." The President used the word "invasion" to describe immigration in over 2,000 ads on Facebook. He also used the words "predator," "invasion," "alien," "killer," "criminal" and "animal" while discussing immigrants at his rallies more than 500 times.

As long as the President employs this rhetoric, and as long as it is tolerated or ignored by so many, tragedies like these will continue to tear our country apart.

We must call on Republicans in Congress to put country before party by holding Trump accountable. We must implore members of the press to stop musing about whether or not the President is racist. We must ensure that a democracy that has been captured and corrupted by the NRA can summon the courage to pass common sense measures like universal background checks, red flag laws and a ban on assault weapons -- proposals which the majority of Americans agree should be in place. As president, I would work with Congress to create a system of federal licensing requirements, which states would implement and have the ability to go beyond.

But none of this will happen until something much larger changes.

Wherever I travel, I always tell people about my love for El Paso. I tell them we are a diverse and safe city -- and that the two are very much connected. We've learned to not only tolerate our differences, but to embrace them as fundamental to our success and our security. El Paso's story is quintessentially an American story: We are a city of immigrants, situated proudly at the border of this nation of immigrants.

Recently, I was in New York where, over a century ago, America opened its gates to the teeming masses of the world at Ellis Island. Today, the Statue of Liberty beckons to the world from here in El Paso, at every port of entry, and shines light upon every bridge across the Rio Grande. When the President demonizes and stirs up hatred against immigrants, he is not only attacking my hometown -- he is attacking the very meaning of America.

I believe El Paso can light our path forward, even as America now stands in sympathy and solidarity in its hour of heartbreak and anger. But for good to prevail, we need to bring every single one of us in. That means refusing to let hate win or to quit on our fellow Americans.

In this great democracy, the power still rests with the people. And it is on all of us, individually and through the institutions of the press and Congress, to decide what this country will stand for at this defining moment of truth.

The plan comes on the heels of a new health care proposal for rural America he released last week. Buttigieg on Tuesday is also making his seventh trip to Iowa since declaring his candidacy, which will include a stop at the Iowa State Fair.

Rural voters, Buttigieg writes in the new plan, have been harmed under the Trump administration "in an unnecessary trade war that treats farmers like pawns and thinks they'll be satisfied with a subsidy rather than their life's work."

Buttigieg's plan for rural revitalization -- much like his previous plans for minority outreach, labor and rural health care -- is tied to his record as mayor. He has cited $850 million in investments into South Bend since he took office in 2012, but he's been criticized for his focus on the revitalization of downtown and has been accused of forgetting the city's low-income suburbs, which have struggled in recent years.

"Just as my own hometown rose up to start a new chapter and meet the future with a fresh approach and new ideas, we can tackle this moment of urgency head on to create opportunity for rural Americans if we empower our communities rather than overlook them," Buttigieg writes. "This plan unleashes the potential of small towns across America with good jobs, an opportunity to grow a business, and the infrastructure to raise a healthy and happy family."

Rural entrepreneurship

In an attempt to "revitalize America's rural economy and catalyze job creation," Buttigieg wants to provide $500 million in federal funding for "Regional Innovation Clusters," allowing state and local governments to take the lead on developing economic projects based on the specific needs of individual rural communities through a grant program judged by a panel of entrepreneurs across the country.

Buttigieg also pledges up to $5 billion to expand apprenticeship networks across the country in an attempt "to ensure an apprenticeship program in a growing industry is available within 30 miles of every American," including underserved rural areas. Similar to his rural health care plan to attract immigrant doctors, Buttigieg seeks to create "Community Renewal visas," with the aim of attracting high-skilled immigrants with the promise of attaining a green card at the end of a three-year residence in rural communities.

Buttigieg's plan would double funding for antitrust enforcement and lower the reporting threshold for mergers in an effort to improve oversight.

In addition, the plan reiterates his call for a $15 federal minimum hourly wage and paid family leave for rural workers.

Investing in technology

The plan also looks to deal with climate change. Rural communities, he writes, are the "frontlines of climate change," and can "become the engines of innovation for addressing climate change and economic growth" under a Buttigieg administration. He called for doubling the $2.5 billion in research and development funding from the US Department of Agriculture on providing solutions to climate change, with an additional $50 billion investment over the next 10 years in farming technology, food safety and natural resources. Buttigieg calls for increased incentives for conservation, paying farmers to maximize land conservation and biodiversity in rural areas while reducing bureaucratic barriers to accessing said programs.

The plan calls for technological investments in rural broadband expansion. In a nod to Franklin Delano Roosevelt's investment in the national highway program, which expanded rural transportation access to underserved rural areas, Buttigieg's plan calls for "Internet for All," pledging $80 billion in expanded internet services by the end of his first term in office.

Expanding education

In addition to expanding broadband access and increased funding for apprenticeship programs, Buttigieg's plan aims to reduce the teacher shortage in rural areas by 50% by increasing salaries and instituting student loan forgiveness for rural teachers. While many of his Democratic competitors have called for free college tuition, Buttigieg instead has instead pushed for subsidies for those Americans who are in need. The plan details free tuition for low and middle-income students, targeting rural areas "where students are more likely to be low-income and college is often more out of reach."

Increased grant funding for satellite hubs within community college networks will ao allow rural students to access college education where they live, as will increased funding for historically black colleges and universities, tribal colleges and minority-serving institutions.

"While some people are telling me, 'Gosh, this is a terrible time to leave the campaign. Can't you find a way out of it?' That's not what this is about," the Hawaii Democrat said in a news release. "I look forward to joining my fellow soldiers for a joint-training exercise with the Indonesian military, focused on counterterrorism and disaster response."

Gabbard, who has deployed to the Middle East twice in her time in the Army National Guard, heads to active-duty training during a crucial time in her campaign. Despite a breakout performance at the second round of Democratic primary debates last month, she has yet to qualify for the third round of debates in September.

"I love our country," Gabbard said Monday. "I am grateful to be able to serve our country and the American people in many ways, including as a soldier."

Outside of her military service, Gabbard's campaign has largely been marked by low poll numbers and controversy surrounding her past views on same-sex marriage and LGBTQ equality. Gabbard said early this year in a statement to CNN that she regrets the positions she took in the past on the issue and has worked toward passing legislation that ensures equal rights and protections.

A CNN poll released early last month found she holds just 1% support.

But her military experience has become a central selling point to her campaign. During the second night of July's debates -- wherein Gabbard finished the night as Google's most-searched candidate -- she wielded her credentials as an Iraq War veteran to speak about foreign policy decisions with a personal tone

"For too long, we had leaders who have been arbitrating foreign policy from ivory towers in Washington without any idea about the cost and the consequence, the toll it takes on our service members, on their families," Gabbard said. "We have to do the right thing. End the wasteful regime change wars and bring our troops home.

"The leadership I will bring to do the right thing, to bring our troops home within the first year in office, because they shouldn't have been there this long."

"Would you also agree that Emma Lazarus's words etched on the Statue of Liberty, 'Give me your tired, give me your poor,' are also a part of the American ethos?" NPR's Rachel Martin asked Cuccinelli on "Morning Edition" in an interview published Tuesday.

"They certainly are: 'Give me your tired and your poor who can stand on their own two feet and who will not become a public charge,'" he replied, altering the entire point of the poem.

It actually reads: "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, Iift my lamp beside the golden door!"

Cuccinnelli, the nation's top immigration official and acting director of US Citizenship and Immigration Services, also pointed out that the "public charge" law on which the Trump administration is basing new immigration policy was written the year before that poem.

He tried to offer a history lesson Monday to argue that legal immigrants from poor parts of the world aren't being targeted by the new rules disqualifying them from green cards if they seek public assistance.

"This is 140-year-old legal structure," he said. "We're dealing with the most recent iteration of it, but this is not new. This was -- the same question might have been asked when my Italian immigrants were coming, immigrant ancestors were coming in and all through that 140 years. So we're -- we're not doing anything new here, we're simply making effective what Congress had already put on the books. So there's no reason for any particular group to feel like this is targeting them. This will apply across the world."

What he was referring to is a law Congress passed many generations ago -- the Immigration Act of 1882. And as Cuccinelli said, the language of that law allowed immigration authorities at US ports to root out anyone they felt was a "convict, lunatic, idiot, or any person unable to take care of himself or herself without becoming a public charge."

It was through that language that women and children not accompanied by a man, people suspected of being gay or lesbian, the deaf and others were barred entry. The law was expanded in the early 20th century to extend to anyone who, for a reason that existed before entering the U.S., became a "public charge" within five years.

But these cases accounted for a very small percentage of immigrants more than 100 years ago.

"The United States has a long history of limiting or outright excluding people based on what the government deemed undesirable," said Michael Innis-Jiménez, an professor of American studies at the University of Alabama. "This undesirability was based on race, nationality or any number of reasons the government classified as a 'defect.' These were the people who could not enter the United States legally."

The laws, which have their roots in rules set up during the Colonial era, long predate the federally funded social safety net of public assistance to help the elderly and the poor that Trump is now closing off to prospective immigrants.

The Trump administration has different immigration values than previous administrations. It's undertaken an aggressive effort to cut down on legal as well as illegal immigration. It's ended long-standing refugee programs called Temporary Protected Status for some countries that could force hundreds of thousands of people who have lived in the US for decades to leave. It's cut down on the number of refugees admitted through regular channels. It's tried to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, by which President Barack Obama gave temporarily relief to some undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children. It's instituted a travel ban on certain countries that no longer specifically targets majority-Muslim nations, but did at its inception. It's slowed the green card process and reopened closed deportation cases and denied H-1B visas to professional workers.

This new rule reinterprets the past in the aim of further lowering legal immigration. But in key ways, the laws of earlier eras were patently racist and singled out specific groups of people, like women, Jews and people from India. It was not a fair system.

The same year Congress passed the Immigration Act of 1882, it did target an ethnic group when it cut off Chinese immigration under the Chinese Exclusion Act, despite Chinese American contributions to the development of the Western US and to the construction of the transcontinental railroad.

Some of the xenophobic rhetoric behind that law, which included that Chinese threatened US culture, would not sound strange coming out of President Donald Trump's mouth when he warns about threats to US culture.

It was a party reversal back then, with Republicans arguing for free immigration and many Democrats favoring exclusion, according to an official State Department history.

That 1882 law restricting Chinese immigration was only the beginning of ugly US laws aimed at the Chinese and other Asian subgroups. They remained in place until 1943.

In a report filed as a public comment against the new Department of Homeland Security rule, a group of historians noted that the system has evolved over time and in light of subsequent laws and court decisions. Some states have tried to strip benefits from immigrants but were denied by courts. Other states have sought to give immigrants some benefits when they are not eligible for federal assistance.

In the 1970s Congress cut off unauthorized immigrants from most benefits and did it again in 1996, with the support of President Bill Clinton, as part of refashioning the welfare system. However, legal immigrants have always had some level of access to aid when they needed it.

Some of the historians who signed the report objecting to Trump's change to the law wrote in The Washington Post when it was first suggested last year that when more than a million legal immigrants were entering the country each year in the early 20th century, very few were denied entry or deported using this reasoning. They examined the year 1916 and, of more than 1 million legal immigrants that year, found that fewer than 12,000 had been either denied entry or deported for being a "public charge."

Torrie Hester, Mary Mendoza, Deirdre Moloney and Mae Ngai wrote that Congress at that time specifically recognized that people who live in the U.S. create roots and families and that deporting them should not be undertaken lightly.

"Our immigration public-charge policy has always recognized two principles: first, the nation's desire for immigrants who are able-bodied and employable, capable of supporting themselves and their families; and second, our commitment to assist members of our communities who fall on hard times," they wrote, arguing that the rule "flies in the face of these long-held values."

In Wilmington, North Carolina, three dogs died after frolicking in a pond, while another succumbed after a swim in Lake Allatoona, Georgia. A common enemy likely led to the deaths of all four dogs: liver failure brought on by ingesting water contaminated with toxic blue-green algae.

These pets died in the same region, but toxic algae can be found all over the United States -- so dog owners throughout the nation need to be on the lookout.

What is toxic algae?

Algae occurs naturally in water, but the blue-green variety are considered Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs). Blue-green algae, also known as cyanobacteria, are "primitive," photosynthetic organisms that can feed off the sun to make their own energy and release oxygen and possibly toxins in the process, said David G. Schmale III, a professor at Virginia Tech.

Some species produce potent toxins that can sicken or even kill people, pets and wildlife, according to the US Environmental Protection Agency. Blue-green algae and other HABs can produce different types of poisons, some that affect the liver, others the brain.

Schmale said he hasn't seen a coroner's report to verify the causes of death, still he speculates the dogs were thirsty and the water contaminated. "Samples of the water where the dogs were likely exposed will need to be tested" for toxins and bacteria to verify this, though, he said.

Where do these algae grow?

Harmful algae can bloom in both fresh and marine water. They've been observed in large freshwater lakes, smaller inland lakes, rivers, reservoirs and marine coastal areas and estuaries in all 50 states, according to Schmale.

Toxic algae can also grow in decorative ponds as well as backyard pools, providing homeowners with a good reason to properly sanitize swimming water.

What do toxic algae look like?

Toxic algae can look like foam, scum, or mats on the surface of water, said Schmale. Harmful algae blooms, which can be blue, vibrant green, brown or red, are sometimes mistaken for paint floating on the water.

Toxic algae often stink, sometimes producing a downright nauseating smell, yet animals may be attracted to the smell and taste of them, according to the EPA.

How do I know if my dog has been exposed?

Symptoms, which usually arise anywhere from 15 minutes to several days after exposure, include diarrhea or vomiting, weakness or staggering, drooling, difficulty breathing and convulsions or seizures, the EPA reports.

Immediately, take your pet to the vet if you see these symptoms.

Dogs, more than other pets, are especially vulnerable because of their tendency to play in water and so sometimes they drink the toxic algae, other times they lick it off their fur. Even dogs that avoid the water may be in danger. Many dogs like to scavenge the shore where they may find -- and eat -- drying clumps of algae.

One study identified 368 cases of toxic algae poisoning associated with dogs throughout the US over a nine-decade period, but the researchers believe this represents only "a small fraction of cases that occur throughout the US each year."

How do I keep my dog safe?

If you spot the algae, leave the area and don't let your dog drink or swim in the water. If your dog has already gotten into a harmful bloom, rinse your pet off immediately in fresh, clean water. Remember to wear gloves to protect yourself. And, if you know you've been in contact with the bloom, immediately wash with soap and water.

Can I be harmed by the algae?

When high concentrations of these cyanotoxins are consumed, they can poison not only domestic animals but also humans, said Schmale. Contact with toxic algae can cause rashes, stomach cramps, nausea, diarrhea and vomiting.

Not only are these poisons present in water, but they can also accumulate along the food chain. "Ultimately, the entire food web is impacted because these toxins are produced," said Schmale. As a result, food contaminated with HABs have caused a variety of illnesses, and, in the most severe cases, lead to paralysis and respiratory failure, according the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Eating contaminated shellfish can cause symptoms within 15 minutes or up to 10 hours after finishing a meal. While mostly symptoms are mild, they can include tingling or numbness in the face, arms, and legs, headache, dizziness, loss of coordination and in rare cases, paralysis and respiratory failure.

Melissa Martin and Denise Mintz took their beloved dogs Abby, Izzy and Harpo to a pond in Wilmington on Thursday night to cool off. But within 15 minutes of leaving the pond, Abby, a West Highland white terrier, began to have a seizure.

Martin rushed her to a veterinary hospital, with Izzy and Harpo right behind her. Upon their arrival, Izzy, also a Westie, started seizing, and both terriers rapidly declined. Then Harpo, her 6-year-old "doodle" mix therapy dog, began to seize and show signs of liver failure.

By midnight Friday, all three dogs had died, she said.

The culprit, Martin's veterinarian said, was poisoning from blue-green algae present in the pond where they played.

"What started out as a fun night for them has ended in the biggest loss of our lives," Martin wrote in a Facebook post that has since been shared more than 15,000 times.

Martin told CNN she didn't notice the algae at first, but her veterinarian told her that what appeared to be debris from flowers were blooms of cyanobacteria.

She said she didn't see any signs warning of toxic algae near the pond, which sits next to a popular walking trail. It's her mission now, she says, to erect signs about toxic waters and warn pet owners about the blooms.

"I will not stop until I make positive change," she said. "I will not lose my dogs for nothing."

Blue-green algae is most common in the summer

Toxic algae blooms are more likely to infest bodies of fresh water when the weather is warm and waters are stagnant, according to the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services.

Some algal blooms leave a film of muck on the surface and make the water ruddy, but others are difficult to immediately detect, such as the blooms in the pond where Martin's dogs were exposed.

There's no cure for the poisoning, and exposure nearly always leads to death in dogs. Drinking from a body of water where blue-green algae lurks or licking it off fur can kill a dog within 15 minutes of exposure, according to Blue Cross for Pets, a UK animal charity.

The North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality periodically updates a map of the state where algae blooms have been reported, but in the case that a health notice isn't posted, it's best for humans and pets alike to avoid waters that smell bad or look odd in color or murky, the state's health and human services department said.

Hours after the August 4 attack, agents with the FBI and the Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms, Tobacco and Explosives visited the home of Ethan Kollie in nearby Kettering, according to a probable cause affidavit. Kollie told the agents he enjoyed firearms, owned two pistols and had bought body armor and a firearms accessory for Betts earlier this year, the affidavit says.

The 24-year-old allowed agents to search his home, where they smelled marijuana and saw a water pipe, commonly used to consume cannabis, and a Draco pistol, the affidavit says.

Agents interviewed Kollie again, this time at his place of employment, on Thursday. During that interview, Kollie told agents he had done hard drugs, marijuana and LSD with Betts several times a week between 2014 and 2015, the affidavit says.

He also told agents that he had smoked marijuana every day for the past decade, according to the affidavit.

When Kollie filled out the ATF paperwork to obtain the Draco pistol in May, the affidavit says, he checked the "no" box when asked whether he had been a regular user of marijuana or any other controlled substance.

Agents explained they were going to search Kollie, in accordance with a search warrant issued earlier that day, and Kollie produced a bag of marijuana and a .38 Special revolver, the affidavit says. He also told the agents that he grew psychedelic mushrooms at his home and explained the process to them, according to the affidavit.

"Kollie stated that he micro-doses the mushrooms on a constant basis, saying it provides him with energy and is 'fun,'" the affidavit says.

Asked why he lied on the federal firearms form, Kollie allegedly told agents that "if he told the truth about his drug use, he would not be allowed to purchase a firearm."

Though US Attorney Benjamin Glassman emphasized that Kollie did not intentionally help plan the Dayton shootings, the affidavit says Kollie acknowledged buying the body armor, a 100-round double drum magazine and an upper receiver for an AR-15, which is part of the gun's frame. All three items were used in the attack, authorities say.

"Kollie indicated that he purchased these items for Betts -- and stored them in Kollie's apartment -- to assist Betts in hiding them from Betts' parents," according to the affidavit.

Kollie also told agents that about 10 weeks before the shootings, at his Kettering apartment, he helped Betts assemble the AR-15 used in the attacks, the affidavit says.

About six to eight weeks ago, Betts returned to Kollie's apartment to pick up the assembled rifle, magazine and body armor, the affidavit says.

Agents seized the Draco pistol, another pistol, the waterpipe and a substance believed to be psychedelic mushrooms at Kollie's home Thursday, the affidavit says. He was arrested Friday and made an initial appearance later that day, Glassman said.

Kollie's attorney told CNN in an emailed statement that Kollie gave three separate interviews to federal authorities "to provide helpful information to aid investigators.

"He does not deny his friendship with Connor Betts and he was as shocked and surprised as everyone else that Mr. Betts committed the violent and senseless massacre in the Oregon District," Nick Gounaris, the attorney, said.

"We appreciate the United States Attorney stating that there was no indication that Mr. Kollie knew that he was assisting Betts in the shooting," the email said.

Kollie is being held in Montgomery County Jail, charged with possession of a firearm by someone who illegally uses or is addicted to a controlled substance, and making false statements with respect to information required by the federal firearms code.

He will have a detention hearing Wednesday to determine bail, Glassman said. He faces up to 15 years in prison if convicted on both counts, the prosecutor said.

Armed with a .223-caliber rifle and high-capacity magazines, Betts fired 41 shots in fewer than 30 seconds, killing his sister, Megan, and eight others in Dayton's entertainment district, police said.

Police officers on patrol fatally shot Betts shortly after he opened fire.

Though police have not announced a motive in the Dayton shooting, memories from former classmates and posts on his apparent Twitter account show that the gunman took a deep interest in violence and had easy access to powerful firearms.

He also expressed interest in committing a mass shooting, Dayton Police Chief Richard Biehl said.

Dole Fresh Vegetables has issued a voluntary recall for baby spinach sold in 6-ounce bags and 10-ounce clamshell containers, with the use-by date of August 5, the company said in an alert from the US Food & Drug Administration.

No illnesses have been reported, the company said.

The recall is a precautionary measure after a sample of baby spinach tested positive for salmonella in Michigan, the company said.

The recalled product also was distributed in Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Tennessee, Virginia and Wisconsin. The product is now expired and should no longer be available on shelves, the company said.

Anyone who may still have the product should throw it away, Dole said.

Salmonella is one of the most frequently reported foodborne illnesses in the United States, sickening an estimated 1.2 million people a year and killing approximately 450.

The bacteria can cause diarrhea, abdominal pain, and nausea, as well as other symptoms that usually occur within eight to 72 hours of eating contaminated food.

In April, at least 117 people in 10 states were sickened by salmonella after eating precut melons, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

In a variety of interviews and tweets -- including on Monday morning on CNN -- the former White House communications director (all 11 days' worth!) has insisted that the President is, in Mooch's mind, a nuclear reactor on the verge of a meltdown and therefore he no longer supports Trump.

"The guy's actually dissembling a little bit, and he's sounding more and more nonsensical," Scaramucci said on "New Day." "And, you know, we're sort anesthetized to it."

In a tweet shortly after that CNN interview, Scaramucci wrote this:

"To those asking, 'what took so long?' You're right. I tried to see best in @realDonaldTrump based on private interactions and select policy alignment. But his increasingly divisive rhetoric - and damage it's doing to fabric of our society - outweighs any short-term economic gain."

Scaramucci is entitled to his own opinion. But not his own facts. And the facts simply do not line up with the idea that Trump's rhetoric is getting worse or more divisive -- particularly of late. The facts suggest that Trump has always been exactly the person he is today. There's no meaningful change -- for the better or the worse -- in his behavior. Trump is, quite simply, just being Trump.

Consider this: Two years ago today, white nationalist marchers in Charlottesville, Virginia, created a riot that left a woman -- Heather Heyer -- dead. In the wake of that incident, Trump blamed "both sides" -- the white supremacists and those who organized a counter-protest to them -- for Heyer's death.

"You had a group on one side that was bad and you had a group on the other side that was also very violent. Nobody wants to say it, but I will say it right now," Trump said at the time.

Not enough for you? How about these:

* Trump attacked a Gold Star family that spoke at the Democratic National Convention in 2016

* Trump mocked and impersonated a disabled New York Times reporter

* Trump said Mexico was purposely sending rapists and criminals to the United States

* In an audio recording of an "Access Hollywood" interview, Trump made a series of misogynistic comments about women

* Trump said the late Sen. John McCain wasn't a war hero because he had been captured by the North Vietnamese

* Trump said that there was "blood coming out of her wherever" in reference to then-Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly's treatment of him in a 2015 debate

* Trump said an American-born judge of Mexican descent had a conflict of interest in a case related to Trump University because the President had pushed for a wall to be built on our southern border.

* Trump alleged, without proof, that 3 to 5 million illegal votes had been cast in the 2016 election

There's more. So much more. But you get the idea.

What Scaramucci is doing is trying to soothe his own conscience. Trump wasn't always this bad! Therefore, supporting him for as long as I did was OK! Something has changed now! Something big!

Trump responded Monday to his former staffer's recent media appearances this way on Twitter: "Scaramucci, who like so many others had nothing to do with my Election victory, is only upset that I didn't want him back in the Administration (where he desperately wanted to be). Also, I seldom had time to return his many calls to me. He just wanted to be on TV!"

The cold reality, of course, is that nothing has changed. Trump is who he has always been. There is no meltdown. There is no "he's getting worse."

Scaramucci knows that. He also should know better.

Donald Trump is the opposite. To know him is to hate him.

Many of those who have been closest to Trump just can't stand the guy. Anthony Scaramucci is the latest. The Mooch has had enough of Trump's "dissembling" -- a ten-dollar word for lying -- and his racism. He even thinks the GOP should consider dumping the President from the 2020 ticket.

I don't see a Republican groundswell for a Dump Trump movement, but it is interesting how many of those closest to Trump have already dumped him. Take Michael Cohen, please. Mr. Cohen was Trump's pit bull, his fixer, his consigliere. Cohen said he'd "take a bullet" for Trump. No more. Before decamping for the pokey, Cohen testified that his one-time hero is in fact "a racist, a con man, a cheat."

Omarosa Manigault Newman, who starred on Trump's reality show "The Apprentice" and worked for him in the White House, wrote in her tell-all that Trump is a racist who used the N-word on the set of the show. (Although she concedes she never personally heard him utter that epithet.)

Some of the President's most senior national security and economic advisers have been reported saying the most contemptuous things. Bob Woodward's book "Fear: Trump in the White House" is replete with examples:

• Former Defense Secretary James Mattis: After briefing Trump on a potential nuclear showdown with North Korea, Mattis -- a four-star Marine general -- is reported to have said, "the President acted like — and had the understanding of — a 'fifth or sixth grader.'" Mattis has denied that he made this statement.

• Gary Cohn, former chair of Trump's National Economic Council, called Trump "a professional liar." Cohn has denied Woodward's claims.

• Former White House chief of staff -- and another Marine general -- John Kelly called the Trump White House "crazytown," and is reported to have called his boss "unhinged," "off the rails," and "an idiot." Kelly denied that he called the President an idiot and called Woodward's book "B.S."

• Veteran attorney and former Trump lawyer John Dowd told Woodward of a practice session of questions and answers with Trump, as if Dowd were Mueller. Dowd's conclusion? Trump is "a f---ing liar." Dowd has denied this claim. • Former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who rose to CEO of Exxon-Mobil, reportedly concluded his boss was "a moron." Tillerson didn't confirm or deny that he made the claim. But he later told CBS News' Bob Schieffer Trump is "a man who's undisciplined, doesn't like to read, doesn't read briefing reports, doesn't like to get into the details of a lot of things..." This sometimes led Trump to demand actions that were not legal, Tillerson told Schieffer.

Apparently the major river flowing through Washington is not the Potomac, it's Denial. Back in my days in the Clinton White House, Woodward quoted me saying unkind (but hilarious) things about some of my colleagues. But I didn't even try to deny saying them. You know why? 'Cause I said them. I suspect these folks did as well.

But here's the other side of the coin: The further you get from Trump the more some folks love him. He is beloved by rural, older, non-college educated white folks, people who would be kicked out on their keisters if they showed up at Mar-a-Lago. Trump probably wouldn't be caught dead in their ZIP codes, but he believes -- perhaps correctly -- "I could stand in the middle of 5th Avenue and shoot somebody and I wouldn't lose voters."

That may be. But it's also true that a whole lot of the people who know Donald Trump best have thrown him under the bus.

The comments to CNN's John Berman come following a weekend in which Scaramucci and Trump traded barbs. The former hedge fund manager has increasingly criticized Trump's racist rhetoric as well as his recent visits to the scenes of mass shootings.

Asked by Berman on "New Day" if he was "no longer an active supporter of President Trump and his reelection bid," the former Trump loyalist replied, "I think that's pretty obvious from over the weekend."

"The guy's actually dissembling a little bit, and he's sounding more and more nonsensical. And, you know, we're sort anesthetized to it," he added, referring to the President's rhetoric and behavior.

Scaramucci's public break with Trump makes him the latest loyalist to cut ties with the President. Some other high-profile allies, including former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon and personal attorney Michael Cohen, have also distanced themselves from Trump after once vigorously defending him in public.

Trump appeared to be angry over the weekend with Scaramucci after he called the President's recent visits to the grief-stricken cities of El Paso, Texas, and Dayton, Ohio, following two mass shootings a "catastrophe."

Asked Monday if he was calling for changing the Republican ticket, Scaramucci replied, "Well, I'm calling for it to be considered, yes."

"I think you have to consider a change at the top of the ticket when someone is acting like this," said Scaramucci, who didn't name a potential replacement candidate, instead saying, "Let's watch how this unfolds."

The former aide said that although he believes Trump's policies are "very, very good for the American people," the President's "rhetoric is so charged and so divisive that we have to all just take a step back now and say, 'what are we doing, actually?'"

"He goes after individuals as the President of the United States on his Twitter account, OK, which incites hate, which incites death threats," he said, adding later, "The racially charged comments, the divisive tweeting, the nonsense coming from the President is not helping the country."

In a tweet following the CNN interview, Scaramucci said he had held off on distancing himself from Trump because he "tried to see best" in him "based on private interactions and select policy alignment."

Responding to Scaramucci's comments to CNN, the White House on Monday said he had no credibility.

"He worked at the White House for less than two weeks and is certainly no expert on this President," White House press secretary Stephanie Grisham said. "This is all self-serving on his part and the media plays right into it. It's embarrassing to watch."

Trump himself later hit out at his former communications director.

"Scaramucci, who like so many others had nothing to do with my Election victory, is only upset that I didn't want him back in the Administration (where he desperately wanted to be)," Trump tweeted. "Also, I seldom had time to return his many calls to me. He just wanted to be on TV!"

'Eventually he turns on everyone'

On Saturday, Trump ripped into Scaramucci in a pair of tweets, writing that the former aide, who served in the administration for 11 days in 2017, was fired "from a position that he was totally incapable of handling." Noting that Scaramucci regularly appears on TV, he added: "Anthony, who would do anything to come back in, should remember the only reason he is on TV, and it's not for being the Mooch!"

The President's tweets came several says after Scaramucci said last week on MSNBC that Trump's recent visits to El Paso and Dayton were a "catastrophe." On Monday, he told Berman of Trump's trips, "the only thing (Trump) was doing in those areas was talking about himself and praising himself and crowd sizes. And so it just -- one day after the next it gets worse and worse and worse."

Responding in a tweet on Sunday to Trump's attacks, Scaramucci said that although he's "fully" supported Trump over the last three years, "Recently, he has said things that divide the country in a way that is unacceptable," adding, "Eventually he turns on everyone and soon it will be you and then the entire country."

Scaramucci's ousting in July 2017 came shortly after an infamous, expletive-laden interview he gave to The New Yorker in which he ripped top White House officials by name. In many of his post-White House TV appearances he has defended Trump, while also making public appeals about curtailing some of his behavior and changing policies, including a suggestion on CNN last year for Trump to "dial down the lying."

"For the last 3 years I have fully supported this President," Scaramucci tweeted Sunday morning. "Recently he has said things that divide the country in a way that is unacceptable. So I didn't pass the 100% litmus test. Eventually he turns on everyone and soon it will be you and then the entire country."

Scaramucci's Sunday tweet comes after Trump appeared to be angry with the former White House communications director for calling the President's recent visits to the grief-stricken cities of El Paso, Texas, and Dayton, Ohio, following two mass shootings a "catastrophe."

The President responded late Saturday by ridiculing Scaramucci, who worked for the Trump administration for 11 days in July 2017, for his short stint in the Trump administration.

"Anthony Scaramucci, who was quickly terminated (11 days) from a position that he was totally incapable of handling, now seems to do nothing but television as the all time expert on 'President Trump,'" Trump wrote in a tweet.

"Like many other so-called television experts, he knows very little about me," he wrote, adding, "Anthony, who would do anything to come back in, should remember the only reason he is on TV, and it's not for being the Mooch!"

Scaramucci, who regularly appears as a guest on TV news shows, said during his MSNBC appearance that Trump's trip to visit with victims of mass shootings in two cities fell short.

"So look, the President didn't do well on the trip," the former aide said. Some of Trump's current aides conceded last week that his visits to El Paso and Dayton did not go as planned. New video revealed that Trump bragged about crowd sizes while visiting patients at a Texas hospital.

Last month, after Trump tweeted racist attacks at four minority congresswomen, Scaramucci said on Twitter that the tweets were "racist and unacceptable." The former aide has also previously criticized the President for repeating falsehoods, saying on CNN last year that Trump "is a liar."

Scaramucci's ousting in 2017 came shortly after an infamous, expletive-laden interview he gave to The New Yorker in which he ripped top White House officials by name. In many of his post-White House TV appearances he has defended Trump, while also making public appeals about curtailing some of his behavior and changing policies.

The regulations reflect the Trump administration's latest move to overhaul the nation's environmental frameworks -- in this case, a law credited with saving the bald eagle and grizzly bear from extinction.

The overhaul changes how the Fish and Wildlife Service and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration consider whether species qualify for protections, as well as how the agencies determine what habitats deserve special protections. It could significantly lengthen how long it takes for a species to become protected, which could further endanger them, but the Trump administration says it allows the focus to be on the "rarest species."

"The best way to uphold the Endangered Species Act is to do everything we can to ensure it remains effective in achieving its ultimate goal -- recovery of our rarest species," Interior Secretary David Bernhardt said in a statement Monday. "An effectively administered Act ensures more resources can go where they will do the most good: on-the-ground conservation."

The final rule was panned by environmental groups that question Bernhardt's motives, given his past work representing oil and gas companies.

"This effort to gut protections for endangered and threatened species has the same two features of most Trump administration actions: it's a gift to industry, and it's illegal. We'll see the Trump administration in court about it," Drew Caputo, Earthjustice vice president of litigation for lands, wildlife, and oceans. said in a statement. Other environmental groups and some states are also expected to sue.

Climate crisis

One million species are threatened by human activity, according to a United Nations report earlier this year. Shrinking habitat, exploitation of natural resources, climate change and pollution are the main drivers of species loss and are threatening more than 40% of amphibians, 33% of coral reefs and over a third of all marine mammals with extinction, the report states.

"The climate crisis underlies so much of the extinction crisis," but the rule could make it more difficult to use the climate data to protect species in the US, said Rebecca Riley, legal director of the nature program for the Natural Resources Defense Council.

"They're trying to narrow the evidence we can consider and narrow the scope of time we're going to be projecting the impact on these species ... limit the forward-looking data," like climate models, Riley said. "It's very technical but they're all designed to make it harder to protect species."

Riley said the rule would also create an exemption to critical habitats that exist because of the results of the climate crisis such as sea level rise.

"It looks like they're trying to say, if you are a sea- ice dependent species we're not going to protect that sea ice habitat as critical habitat," she said.

Gary Frazer, the assistant director for endangered species at the Fish and Wildlife Service, said the change in the rule is needed because longer-term models can change.

"We also are clear that we're continuing to make listing determinations as directed by the statute solely on the basis of the best available scientific information and without consideration for the economic impacts," Frazer said.

Frazer said that reliable data -- including in areas such as land use planning -- can only be developed "for the next 30 or 40 or 50 years."

"When you start reaching out to 70 or 80 years, the confidence that anyone has in what the future -- those future conditions are like starts to degrade significantly," he said.

This story has been updated.

It turns out Speaker Nancy Pelosi might have been onto something when she talked about Trump being "almost self-impeaching" several months ago. This August, Trump seems to be on a path of impeaching himself.

Despite the continued skepticism from Democratic leaders, the drive toward impeachment has accelerated. Over 50% of House Democrats, including some legislators from moderate swing districts, have announced their support for impeachment proceedings.

Even House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler, the emerging moral conscience of the party, said that he favors an impeachment inquiry, and contended that formal impeachment proceedings are already underway. He told CNN's Erin Burnett: "This is formal impeachment proceedings. We are investigating all the evidence, gathering the evidence. And we will (at the) conclusion of this -- hopefully by the end of the year -- vote to (send) articles of impeachment to the House floor. Or we won't. That's a decision that we'll have to make. But that's exactly the process we're in right now."

Nadler has done more than any other senior Democrat in talking about the "I" word and making the case to the public for moving forward with hearings -- the job of opposition leaders in these historic moments.

It is not clear that Robert Mueller's testimony before the House is the reason the impeachment process has accelerated. While the substance of Mueller's presentation was devastating, just like the written report, Trump himself has been the driving force in energizing Democrats to take a stand.

Trump has continued to do more than anyone else to maintain the political momentum necessary to prevent Democrats from putting the impeachment option aside. While the notion of self-impeachment is silly, it is true that Trump's own egregious actions forced Democrats to continue thinking about the kinds of dramatic steps that might be necessary to contain this runaway presidency.

Trump's ongoing acceptance of white nationalist rhetoric, if not politics, continues to unsettle many across the country. It started with his tweet that said that the four young Democratic legislators who have been among his most vocal critics should "go back and help fix the totally broken and crime infested places from which they came," and continued with his racially saturated Twitter blast against Baltimore, and Maryland Rep. Elijah Cummings. And then there was the horrific shooting in El Paso where the crazed killer allegedly used the same word -- "invasion"-- as the President to describe immigrants in a manifesto before he prepared to murder innocent Mexicans in a Walmart.

The President's subsequent response in El Paso -- giving a thumbs up next to a baby orphaned in the shooting during a staged photo-op -- just made things worse.

In other words, the reason that impeachment is on the table has less to do with the Mueller report than the President's own actions. In the same way that President Andrew Johnson's attacks on Reconstruction fueled the impeachment drive against him, the President's far right agenda is emboldening Democrats to consider voting for impeachment -- even if Senate Republicans will inevitably prevent his removal from office.

The worse that the President behaves, and the clearer the real world impact of his actions becomes, the easier it will be for Democrats to go on record saying that obstructing justice in a serious investigation is unacceptable. He tried, it would seem based on the Mueller report, to stifle the investigators in ways that President Richard Nixon would never have imagined possible.

We are still far away from that kind of vote. The fears that Pelosi has about a backlash to impeachment in moderate districts are very real and have not disappeared. Until she has the entire Democratic Caucus behind her, she will likely be reluctant to give her full support.

Trump, however, keeps making it difficult to just say no. His presidency is off the rails, and he is playing with a fire of racism, nativism and social division that is dangerous -- if not deadly. His rhetoric keeps getting more explosive as the election heats up. His retweet about the Clintons takes us into new "unprecedented" territory about just how far he will go.

Throughout his time in office, Trump has been his own worst enemy. Any other incumbent president with relative peace abroad, a good economy and a united party would be sitting pretty for reelection. However, he shows the nation every day the immense risks of giving him power. There is a reason his approval ratings have remained historically low and that he has never been able to crack majority support.

Trump will only get worse, not better. Those who keep waiting for a "turning point" to normalcy are just not paying attention. The more heated that the 2020 campaign becomes, the more aggressive he will be. Every pillar of his rhetorical arsenal -- embracing nativism, demanding investigations and spreading conspiracy theories, dismissing law and order, and character assassination -- will remain front and center. With each swipe at this opponents, he will keep giving Democrats more fodder to take dramatic action to, at a minimum, go on record about why this kind of use of presidential power is not acceptable.

The suspect, identified as 21-year-old Philip Manshaus by Norway's public service broadcaster NRK, appeared in court on charges of murder and terrorism.

It's unclear where the marks on his face came from.

Oslo District Police Attorney Paal-Fredrik Hjort Kraby told CNN that they are aware that his name was published on state media but they would not confirm it to CNN. The suspect's attorney would not confirm his name either.

Prosecutors will ask for Manshaus to be imprisoned for four weeks, with full isolation, as well as letter, visitor and media bans, according to a statement released by police on Monday,

"The prosecution will request closed doors to the prison meeting for the sake of danger of forfeiture, as the investigation is at an early stage and the accused has not provided an explanation to the police," the statement said.

Overpowered

The suspect was overpowered on Saturday by a 65-year-old man during the attack at the Al-Noor Islamic Center in Baerum, a district just west of Oslo.

Police said Monday that Manshaus wore a GoPro camera on a helmet as he entered the mosque.

Oslo District Police Attorney Paal Fredrik Hjort Kraby told media that investigators have secured the recordings from the camera, which they consider evidence.

Imran Mushtaq, a board member at the Al-Noor mosque, told NRK that more than a dozen people were praying inside the mosque just 10 minutes before the suspect arrived. But by the time the shooting began, only three older men were left inside.

The suspect entered by shooting through the mosque's locked glass door, Mushtaq said. Two weapons were found inside the mosque and are believed to be connected to the suspect, police said.

Shortly after the attack, investigators found the body of a young woman at the suspect's home in Baerum.

The victim is the 17-year-old stepsister of the suspect, whom Oslo police identified as Johanne Zhangjia Ihle-Hansen on Monday.

Superintendent Rune Skjold told reporters Sunday that the suspect had expressed right-wing sympathies online. He had praised figures like Vidkun Quisling, the leader of Norway under Nazi occupation during World War II.

According to the Office of Inspector General's report released Friday, 96% of embassies and consulates and 95% of domestic bureaus and offices who responded to OIG's surveys said the hiring freeze "had a somewhat negative or very negative effect on overall operations." Some 97% of embassies and consulates and 100% of bureaus and offices told OIG that the freeze negatively impacted employee morale and welfare.

President Donald Trump instituted the hiring freeze upon taking office in January 2017. The Office of Management and Budget lifted the freeze in mid-April of that year, but the State Department continued the freeze for another 13 months under the tenure of former Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. Mike Pompeo resumed hiring in May 2018, after becoming secretary of state.

The OIG report, which was ordered by Congress and based on responses from 38 bureaus and offices and 151 overseas posts, found that "several bureaus charged with protecting security, health, and life safety reported to OIG that the hiring freeze had significant detrimental effects on their operations."

The Bureau of Diplomatic Security (DS), for example, reported a number of adverse repercussions as a result of the freeze. Among those were the inability to staff its command center -- which "operates 24 hours a day to monitor and report information regarding threats against US diplomatic missions, the Secretary, and American citizens abroad" -- at the recommended levels.

"DS said that even staffing the center with the minimum staff needed to operate contributed to employee burnout and fatigue and led to coverage gaps that could have significantly affected its ability to respond to overseas security crises," the report said.

The Bureau of Overseas Building Operations said "it conducted 22% fewer overseas safety, health, and environmental management inspections in 2018 than in 2016" due to the freeze. Americans seeking consular services abroad faced longer wait times during the freeze, the report found.

Impacts on counterterrorism, law enforcement

Domestically, the Bureau of Medical Services told OIG that "staffing shortages during the hiring freeze affected its ability to provide support services for special needs children of overseas employees, process employee medical clearances, and advise on suitability reviews in cases involving mental health issues, including suitability determinations for law enforcement officers authorized to carry weapons."

The report found that the freeze negatively impacted oversight and management of millions of dollars in foreign assistance programs, including ones related to counterterorrism, global health, narcotics and law enforcement and humanitarian aid.

The inspector general's report could not determine the costs of the hiring freeze "because the Department did not systematically track these costs." The report noted anecdotal accounts of increased overtime and travel costs as a result of the freeze.

The man was having surgery to remove a harmless lump in his abdominal wall, but the operating team neglected to take out his dentures before the operation.

He returned to the hospital six days later complaining of blood in his mouth and difficulties breathing and swallowing, which had prevented him from eating solid food.

Ultimately, more surgery was needed to resolve the problem, which was revealed in a case report published by the British Medical Journal on Monday. Lead author Harriet Cunniffe, from James Paget Hospital in eastern England, is calling for surgeons to ensure dentures are removed from patients before an operation.

During the patient's first return to the emergency room, doctors were unable to diagnose the problem and the unnamed man was sent home with a prescription for mouthwash, antibiotics and steroids.

But he returned two days later with worsening symptoms and was admitted to the hospital with suspected aspiration pneumonia -- a severe chest infection.

Eventually a diagnostic procedure identified a semicircular object lying across his vocal cords, which had caused internal blistering and swelling.

The man, who said he had lost his dentures during his initial visit to hospital, was subsequently rushed into surgery to remove the false teeth. He remained in the hospital for another six days.

He returned suffering complications on multiple occasions over the following month, before eventually healing.

The authors of the study wrote: "There are no set national guidelines on how dentures should be managed during anaesthesia, but it is known that leaving dentures in during bag-mask ventilation allows for a better seal during induction (when the anaesthetic is being infused), and therefore many hospitals allow dentures to be removed immediately before intubation (when a tube is inserted into the airway to assist breathing)."

"In addition to reminding us of the risks of leaving dentures in during induction of anaesthesia when the Swiss cheese model of errors aligns, this case also highlights a number of important learning points," they added.

"The first is to always listen to your patient. It has long been known that one gets the majority of the information needed to form a diagnosis based on the patients' history."

The Trump administration will delay some tariffs against China on cellphones, laptop computers, toys and some other items until Dec. 15, softening the blow of levies that were scheduled to take effect on Sept. 1 against roughly $300 billion of imports.

The office of the U.S. Trade Representative said that some products will be removed from the tariff lists entirely, based on health, safety, national security and other factors. The statement didn’t say which items would be removed.

The USTR said it would release precise details of the delayed tariffs later Tuesday, but the items that will be delayed are some of the biggest ticket items facing tariffs. Just cellphones and laptops represent about $80 billion of trade, more than a quarter of the tariffs that were posed to take effect, with a 10% levy, in just a few weeks.

The USTR didn’t provide a reason beyond saying the decision was “part of USTR’s public comment and hearing process.” In June, over the course of seven days of hearings, hundreds of U.S. companies testified that the tariffs would damage their business.

The delay in tariffs also buys a reprieve for negotiators. Talks between the U.S. and Chinese negotiating teams, in Shanghai last month, ended without a breakthrough, and a Chinese delegation was planning to visit Washington in September, shortly after the tariffs were scheduled to take affect. Now, the U.S. and China will have another opportunity to strike a deal and avert the tariffs.

The stock market soared on the news of yet another potential thaw in the tensions between the world’s two largest economies. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up more than 400 points, or nearly 1.7%, in morning trade Tuesday.

Apple Inc. surged more than 4.5% on news that smartphones, including its iPhone would be spared until at least December from the proposed tariffs.

The reprieve is the second break the Trump administration has granted Apple. The company last year dodged duties on its smartwatches and wireless earbuds after the U.S. excluded those gadgets from planned tariffs.

The move is the latest seesawing in the talks between Washington and Beijing. The tariffs in question—on roughly $300 billion in goods—were first announced in May following a breakdown in U.S.-China talks. They would have come atop the roughly $250 billion in goods from China already facing tariffs, and would result in nearly every item imported from China facing a duty.

Then, President Trump and China’s President Xi Jinping reached a truce at a summit in Osaka, Japan, in late June and these tariffs were placed on hold.

But by late July, the Trump administration blamed China for not moving quickly enough to purchase agricultural goods, a move that China said it hadn’t agreed to in the first place. It was after those talks in late July that the Trump administration said it would impose this round of tariffs on Sept. 1.

Now a substantial part of those tariffs is delayed.

The USTR also said that it would have an exclusion process for the newest round of tariffs, meaning that individual companies will have the ability to avoid the duties if they successfully make the case that their business would be unduly harmed.

The Trump administration on Tuesday narrowed the list of Chinese products it plans to impose new tariffs on as of Sept. 1, delaying levies on cellphones, laptop computers, toys and other goods and announcing exclusions for other products for various reasons.

The United States trade representative’s office said that a new 10 percent tariff on roughly half the Chinese goods imported into the United States would still take effect on Sept. 1 as announced by President Trump.

But tariffs on consumer electronics, video game consoles, certain toys, computer monitors and some footwear and clothing items are being delayed until Dec. 15, giving retailers time to stockpile the products they need for the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons.

The administration added that certain products were being removed from the tariff list “based on health, safety, national security and other factors.”

Subscribe to With Interest
Catch up and prep for the week ahead with this newsletter of the most important business insights, delivered Sundays.

SIGN UP
Stocks rallied on the news, with the S&P 500 climbing nearly 2 percent in morning trading. The benchmark index was lifted, in part, by stocks of retailers and computer chip producers, two industries that have been sensitive to indications that trade tensions were getting either better or worse.

Best Buy, which gets a many of the products it sells from China, was among the best-performing stocks in the S&P 500, up more than 8 percent in morning trading. The Nasdaq composite index rose more than 2 percent.

The adjustments to the threatened tariffs come as the Trump administration faces mounting pressure from businesses and consumer groups who say the continuing trade war with China is hurting them. Mr. Trump has been pressing Beijing since last year to make a trade deal that would, among other things, strengthen protections for American intellectual property, open Chinese markets to American business and result in China buying large quantities of American energy and agricultural goods.

But negotiators for the United States and China have made little progress since May, when progress stalled out over several issues. The stumbling blocks include whether Mr. Trump would roll back the 25 percent tariffs the administration has already imposed on roughly $250 billion of Chinese goods and whether Beijing would enshrine in law the reforms it has pledged to make.

Liu He, China’s vice premier and the country lead trade negotiator, spoke with Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, on Tuesday, and the three agreed to speak again in two weeks, the state-run Xinhua News Agency reported.

On Tuesday, Mr. Trump criticized China for not making large purchases of American farm goods, suggesting that the tariffs might force them into action.

“As usual, China said they were going to be buying ‘big’ from our great American Farmers,” he wrote. “So far they have not done what they said. Maybe this will be different!”

If you want to live in a big city but have a tight budget, you may want to avoid places such as Miami and and Denver, where housing costs are rising year over year.

That’s according to a recent report from Rent.com on the cost of city living, which analyzed data from the 2016 and 2017 editions of the U.S. Consumer Expenditure Survey, which is conducted annually by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The report looked at the change in housing costs in 22 major metropolitan areas over 12 months.

In addition to mortgages and rental costs, the BLS includes property taxes, maintenance, utilities, household products and furnishings in its definition of housing costs.

Of the areas surveyed, Miami experienced the most significant increase in housing costs between 2016 and 2017, spending an average of 8.2% more on housing over the course of the year. That can be attributed in part to the fact that mortgage costs rose faster than local wages over the same period, the Miami New Times reports.

St. Louis saw the second highest rise in housing spending with an average increase of 7.8%. That made an impact: Between 2016 to 2017, the percentage of St. Louis residents who are severely cost-burdened, meaning they spend 50% or more on housing, increased more than 2%, according to a survey from Apartment List.

Source: 2016, 2017 Consumer Expenditure Survey, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics; Click to enlarge

Here’s the full list of the 10 U.S. cities that saw the biggest increases in housing costs between 2016 and 2017:

Miami, Florida: 8.2% increase
St. Louis, Missouri: 7.8% increase
Denver, Colorado: 7.1% increase
Boston, Massachusetts: 6.7% increase
Washington D.C.: 6% increase
Seattle, Washington: 5.8% increase
San Francisco, California: 5.5% increase
Houston, Texas: 3.9% increase
Atlanta, Georgia: 3.8% increase
New York, New York: 3.5% increase
However, many major cities have actually gotten cheaper. In Minneapolis, housing spending dropped 6.7% on average, followed by Baltimore with a 4.2% decrease and Chicago with a 3.7% decrease.

Regardless of location, housing costs take up a significant portion of city dwellers’ paychecks. In 2017, the national average for income spent on housing was 27%, the report found. While that falls beneath the recommended 30%, it still means many are spending above what is considered financially manageable.

Residents of Los Angeles and Boston put an average of 31.8% and 30.5%, respectively, of their income toward housing in 2017, the report found. In New York City, residents spent an average of 29.6% of their income on housing, nearly exceeding the 30% mark.

Is the high cost of living in a major city worth it? Just over half (55%) of survey respondents say yes. Another 30.7% say no and 14.3% are neutral. But that doesn’t mean city dwellers want to stay forever: 78% of respondents say they are open to moving at some point and 12.4% say they want to move away as soon as possible. Just 9.6% say they want to stay put for the rest of their lives.

When determining whether to live in a big city or somewhere cheaper, it ultimately comes down to your circumstances and priorities. If job security or earning a higher salary are among your reasons for living in a big city, you’re probably in the right place, given that cities are often considered hot spots for high-paying jobs.

But if you choose to live somewhere more affordable, you might find it easier to achieve the lifestyle you want without needing to cut back on things like entertainment or dining out.

Still weighing your options? Here’s an idea of where to buy if you want to become a city-dwelling homeowner for less. And if quality of life is what you truly care about, these 10 cities are ranked highly.

When most people think about innovative companies in 2019, they picture the ones dominating the headlines like Google, Apple, Amazon and Facebook. Interestingly, another company consistently tops U.S. patent rankings year after year. That company is IBM and it was granted substantially more patents than any other company once again in 2018. That's according to the Intellectual Property Owners Association which released its list of the organizations receiving the most U.S. utility patents in July.

Based on data from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the ranking shows that IBM was granted 9,088 patents in 2018, the 26th consecutive year it has topped America's patent league. It led the way in the fields of artificial intelligence, cloud computing, security and quantum computing-related patent grants. Many of the usual suspects are present at the top of the list with South Korean tech giant Samsung second with 5,836 patents granted, ahead of Japanese photographic manufacturer Canon’s 3,206. Elsewhere on the list, Google's parent-company Alphabet comes sixth with 2,597 patents granted while Apple is in eleventh place with 2,147.

GARDAÍ IN GALWAY are investigating the sudden death of a teenager who fell ill at her Debs dance last night.

Jessica Moore (19) was a pupil at St Raphael’s College in Loughrea and was attending the event at a hotel in Ballinasloe.

An ambulance was called after she felt unwell at around 2am last night, and she was taken to Portiuncula Hospital where she was later pronounced dead.

The coroner has been notified, and a post-mortem examination is due to take place tomorrow.

Investigations remain ongoing at this time, gardaí said.

Her family described Jessica as the “cherished and much-loved sister” to two siblings while the “inexpressible grief” of her parents is also detailed in the death notice on RIP.ie.

The 19 year old will be laid to rest on Thursday afternoon at St Patrick’s Church in Bullaun.

Strait of Hormuz -- The White House is keeping up its push for allies to join an international military coalition to protect commercial shipping in the vital waterway that connects the oil-rich Persian Gulf to the rest of the world. Iran warned on Tuesday that such a bolstered naval presence in the Strait of Hormuz would only increase the "risk of combustion" in the region.

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has called on the international community to step up pressure on Iran until it stops what he calls "destabilizing behavior."

His counterpart, Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif -- who was recently sanctioned by the U.S. government -- has used the same language to cast blame for the escalating tension in the region at Washington.

A variety of governments -- including those of Japan, Germany, Ireland, The Bahamas and New Zealand -- offer similar travel advisories to their citizens, USA Today reports.

“Heeding to the possibility that shooting incidents could happen anywhere in the U.S., which is a gun society, please continue to stay alert as a precautionary measure,” the Consulate General of Japan said in a recent statement.

The Bahamas advises “young males” to be especially careful when interacting with the police.

These warnings were brought to President Donald Trump’s attention last Friday when he was taking questions from the press corps outside the White House. The president said he wasn’t aware of such advisories, then added he would retaliate against any country that issued them.

“Well, I can’t imagine that,” he said. “But if they did that, we’d just reciprocate. We are a very reciprocal nation with me as the head. When somebody does something negative to us in terms of a country, we do it to them.”

The mass shootings this month in Texas and Ohio have led some countries to highlight warnings about traveling to the U.S., but such advisories are nothing new. They bring attention not just to the incidence of violence and racism in the country but also various benign cultural differences, such as the relative acceptability of nudity.

-- Douglas Perry

@douglasmperry

Visit subscription.oregonlive.com/newsletters to get Oregonian/OregonLive journalism delivered to your email inbox.

The US economy doesn’t have enough workers.

For a record 16 straight months, the number of open jobs has been higher than the number of people looking for work. The US economy had 7.4 million job openings in June, but only 6 million people were looking for work, according to data released by the US Department of Labor.

This is not normal. Ever since Labor began tracking job turnover two decades ago, there have always been more people looking for work than jobs available. That changed for the first time in January 2018. Just look at the chart below.

Employers have been complaining about a shortage of skilled workers in recent years, particularly workers with advanced degrees in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and math) fields. Nearly every industry now has a labor shortage, but here’s the twist: Employers are having a harder time filling blue-collar positions than professional positions that require a college education.

The hardest-to-find workers are no longer computer engineers. They are home health care aides, restaurant workers, and hotel staff. The shift is happening because more and more Americans are going to college and taking professional jobs, while working-class baby boomers are retiring en masse.

This means that for once, low-skilled workers have the most leverage in the current labor market.

One way to measure that leverage is to see how many workers are quitting their jobs. When more people are quitting than getting fired, that’s a sign of a healthy labor market. It means people are finding better-paying jobs, or feel confident that they will. And, sure enough, a record number of workers are quitting.

In April, 3.5 million workers quit their jobs — the highest number ever recorded in a single month (check out the red line in the graph below). Meanwhile, layoffs and firings remain at record-low levels.

Who are the workers quitting at the highest rates? Restaurant and food catering workers, followed by those in the hotel and tourism industry. Both industries rely on a large number of low-paid workers. The fact that so many are quitting suggests that workers are fed up with crappy jobs.

It “indicates that workers are feeling more confident in their jobs prospects to quit in search of better opportunities,” writes economist Elise Gould of the Economic Policy Institute.

While a labor shortage seems like something for President Donald Trump to brag about, there is one troubling sign: The total number of job openings is decreasing. That means economic growth could continue to slow. That’s bad news for the president.

But in the meantime, there’s no better time for working-class Americans to demand better wages, benefits, schedules, and work conditions. It also means immigration reform is more urgent than ever. In order to fill all the open jobs and keep the economy growing, Congress will need to allow more low-skilled immigrants to work — legally.

The numbers are pretty clear about what comes next. If 7.4 million jobs are open and only 6 million people are looking for work, then employers need to find a lot more workers. They need to encourage more Americans to join the workforce.

Right now there are about 1.5 million people who are considered “marginally attached” to the US labor force and who are not counted as job seekers. They are people who would like to work but don’t need to, or can’t work because of other responsibilities. Their most common reasons for not working are because they’re enrolled in school or taking care of family members, according to the Labor Department.

Economists agree that employers need to do more to entice workers to join the labor market. They need to sweeten the deal.

“Companies looking to attract enough blue-collar workers will have to continue increasing wages and, as a result, possibly experience diminished profits,” wrote Gad Levanon, chief economist for North America at the Conference Board, a global economic research organization that has studied the recent US labor shortage.

Slow income growth has been the most persistent problem affecting the US economy in its recovery from the Great Recession. Wages have barely kept up with the cost of living, even as the unemployment rate dropped and the economy expanded.

With such a tight labor market and rising productivity, workers should expect much bigger pay raises than they’re getting.

Private sector workers (excluding farmworkers) got a measly 8-cent average hourly raise in July, adding up to an average pay of $27.98 an hour. Workers’ wages only grew about 1.6 percent in the past year, after adjusting for inflation.

While that’s faster than wages have been growing since the recession started in 2007, it’s still a pathetic amount compared to the sky-high payouts corporate CEOs are getting.

But raising wages will only do so much to ease the labor shortage. Businesses will need to hire more foreign workers too.

The US economy needs more low-skilled immigrants
The new labor market data shows a lot of unfilled jobs that require college degrees — about 1 million in the professional business service sector. But there are even more open jobs that don’t require that much education.

These are the kinds of jobs that low-skilled immigrants, often from Latin America, have long helped fill. But Trump’s restrictions on immigration threaten to make the labor shortage worse. Since taking office, his administration has tried to scale back nearly every avenue of legal immigration, ignoring the high demand for unskilled immigrant workers, even though he employs undocumented workers at his own golf clubs.

Trump’s most recent immigration proposal would revamp the current legal immigration system, which currently prioritizes immigrants with family ties to the US. The new green card system would instead favor immigrants with high levels of education, English-language fluency, and professional skills. Most of the green cards would go to immigrants under a point system that ranks applicants based on certain criteria, such as professional skills, education level, age, and English fluency. So Trump would like to make it even harder for unskilled immigrants to come to the US.

In 2017, the Wall Street Journal’s editorial board warned Trump that his restrictions on immigration could hurt the economy.

“If President Trump wants employers to produce and build more in America, the US will need to improve education and skills in manufacturing and IT. But the economy will also need more foreign workers, and better guest worker programs to bring them in legally,” the publication said in March 2017.

Darrell West, a Brookings expert on technology and public policy, pointed out in 2013 that the US economy would suffer if Congress didn’t overhaul the immigration system:

America’s immigration system is not designed for today’s economy, and remains largely unchanged since 1965. In fact, of the approximately one million green cards given out by the US in 2011, around 139,000 (or 13 percent) were given out for economic reasons, a number far too small to meet the needs of the world’s largest economy.

Providing more work visas for skilled and unskilled immigrants seems like an obvious solution to ease the labor shortage. But it’s also the solution Trump seems least inclined to take.

The southern half of the United States is far less resilient than the northern half, according to a groundbreaking federal study that analyzed factors such as income inequality and religious affiliation in every county.

But one of the least resilient counties, oddly, is New York County, better known as Manhattan, which suffers because residents eschew personal automobiles.

The study, done for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, takes a unique approach to studying resilience by measuring individuals’ financial stability as well as their connection to their community. There is no mention of typical resilience measures such as the quality of infrastructure or physical protection from natural hazards. Nor does the study consider risk factors such as exposure to flooding and hurricanes.

“It’s knowing your neighbors,” said Kyle Burke Pfeiffer, one of the study’s authors and leader of the National Preparedness Analytics Group at Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois. “Having relationships allows you to do many things, such as provide care and share flashlights. It helps one think about checking on your neighbors, maybe even building communities with a resilient mindset.”

The states with the lowest resilience are roughly the same as the states in which the most number of federal disasters have occurred since 1953, according to an E&E News analysis of FEMA records.

Texas, Louisiana, Alabama, Kentucky and Mississippi all rank in the top 10 in the total number of disasters. Yet in each of those states, a majority of the counties received low or mediocre resilience rankings.

Argonne Lab researchers used publicly available data to compare each of the 3,141 counties in the United States in 20 social and economic categories. Many of the categories are predictable, such as unemployment and homeownership rates, median household income, and the percentage of high school graduates. But many are less obvious.

The study rates each county on income inequality, which, research shows, can hinder a cohesive response to disaster. “When income inequality is present, earnings tend to be distributed in a way that does not support broader community goals,” the study says.

“Circles of wealth tend to congregate with other circles of wealth and they create ... an informal class system, particularly in urban areas,” Pfeiffer said.

Income inequality is highest across broad swaths of the Southeast and Southwest and lowest in the Midwest and the Washington, D.C., area, where many residents work for the federal government.

The study is part of a growing body of research on resilience that seeks to determine the factors that influence how well a community recovers from any disruption. A 2017 study said there was no “common, agreed definition of community resilience.” But the researchers found general agreement that resilience involves community networks, communication, health, governance, preparedness and mental outlook.

The Argonne study counts the number of civic and social organizations in each county relative to population and the percentage of residents who adhere to a religion. Civic, social and religious groups are important during disasters because of the support they provide individuals and the social networks they build for spreading information and mobilizing resources, the study says.

Religious adherence was highest in Utah and in the central United States, from North Dakota and Minnesota to Texas and Louisiana. It was lowest in the Northeast and Northwest. Civic and social organizations were sparse throughout the country, with pockets of strength in Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and southern Florida.

But many of the categories that researchers studied—including hospital capacity, health insurance coverage and vehicle ownership—are tied closely to wealth, which results in a huge geographic divide in the United States.

Rating each county on its overall resilience, the study shows that 89% of the lowest-rated counties are in the South. Georgia, Texas, Kentucky and Mississippi have particularly high numbers of counties with low resilience scores. Puerto Rico also has very low resilience.

“Wealth certainly correlates to being able to afford things like insurance and the ability to pull yourself up after a disaster and get a hotel room,” Pfeiffer said.

The study aims to help local emergency managers understand the challenges their communities face in responding to a disaster, and to help FEMA work with localities to improve their resilience, a FEMA spokeswoman said.

The study acknowledges shortcomings. Analyzing data at a county level can “mask pockets of communities or neighborhoods that have significant challenges to resilience, such as migrant communities,” Pfeiffer said.

The study also does not analyze county emergency response plans, which could compensate for weaknesses such as a lack of hospital capacity or low numbers of medical professionals.

A few county rankings are anomalous, particularly Manhattan’s rank as the 55th least-resilient county in the United States, just ahead of Claiborne County, Miss. Manhattan’s per-capita income of $111,386 is the highest in the United States—substantially higher than Claiborne County’s $13,095—and it has an enormous number of hospitals, medical professionals and other attributes that add to its resilience.

But Manhattan has famously low rates of home and vehicle ownership, a transient population, and a notoriously small number of vacant apartments, all of which make it less resilient.

The study was published in December and is being updated with recent Census Bureau data.

Reprinted from Climatewire with permission from E&E News. E&E provides daily coverage of essential energy and environmental news at www.eenews.net.

Everything’s cheaper in two Texas cities, according to a new analysis.

According to a study by the Council for Community and Economic Research, two cities in the Lone Star State ranked as the cheapest places to live in America.

The research — which looked at 257 cities over the first quarter of this year and analyzed the cost of housing, utilities, grocery items, transportation, health care, and miscellaneous goods and services — found that the Texas city of Harlingen was the cheapest place overall, followed by McAllen, Texas. (We previously looked at the most expensive.)

The South featured heavily on the least expensive list. And across the board, housing costs — as well as goods and services expenses — in these cities were much lower compared to the national average.

A mid ten consecutive weeks of protest in Hong Kong, Beijing is looking to a seemingly unlikely place for support: Europe. In recent days, Chinese ambassadors across the continent have gone on the offensive to rally Europe behind Hong Kong’s government and against the protestors. As part of their campaign to promote Beijing’s line, China’s ambassadors are publishing op-eds in local papers and publicly criticizing European leaders for failing to denounce what they are trying to frame as violent protests. The audacity of China’s efforts suggests that in Beijing’s eyes, Europe is up for grabs.

There’s a reason China thinks Europe might be persuaded. As China attempts to spread its authoritarian values across the globe, and especially as the competition between China and the United States intensifies, Europe has conspicuously avoided siding with the United States over China. European leaders remain convinced they can uphold the values and norms they share with Washington while benefitting economically from greater engagement with China. This stance is short-sighted and dangerous—putting liberal democracy in peril.

China is a close and important partner for Europe; the two sides trade roughly 1 billion Euros worth per day, and Chinese foreign direct investment in the EU totaled 29.1 and 17.3 billion Euros in 2017 and 2018 respectively. The economic opportunity that China presents—especially for countries that have lagged economically behind Western Europe—creates strong incentives to sit on the fence. Countries in Southern and Eastern Europe in particular benefit from China’s Belt and Road investment and are keen to avoid losing it.

At the EU-level, leaders have been unable to chart a clear course for dealing with China. Yes, some countries like Germany and France have driven progress on this front—the EU referred to Beijing as a “systemic rival” earlier this year, and the European Commission introduced a new framework to facilitate closer scrutiny of Chinese investments in Europe. But while EU-level joint statements and guidelines are welcome developments, implementation of the guidelines is left up to EU member states, who have different strategies to deal with China. As we have already seen, for example, some European leaders are willing to criticize China’s business practices and human rights record, while others have remained silent. This lack of cohesion prevents Europe from effectively countering the challenges that China’s rise creates or from clearly aligning with the Unites States in the ways that will be required to defend shared values.

Europe’s lack of a unified, strong approach largely stems from an absence of a European-wide consensus about the threat that China poses. Unlike Russia, which illegally annexed territory in Ukraine and regularly interferes in Europe’s democracies, China has pursued a more subtle approach to Europe. Moreover, while Russia looms large to Europe’s north, China is more distant and does not pose the same direct military threat. China’s tactics have so far obscured (or made it easier to overlook) the fact that, like Moscow, Beijing views liberal democracy as a threat to its success and stability and believes that by weakening democracy it can accelerate the decline of Western influence.

The United States has done little to help move Europe off the fence. Instead, the Trump administration has actively pushed the continent away. Withdrawing from the Paris Climate Accord and the Iran nuclear deal, imposing steel and aluminum tariffs, and antagonizing some of its closest allies, including by referring to the European Union a foe, have made the United States seem like a less attractive partner than it used to be. While Washington has been antagonistic, Beijing has been careful to strike all the right chords. The CCP talks about harmonizing civilizations, invokes “values” when discussing European and Chinese commonalities, and extols the values of multilateralism. Because China and Europe increasingly find themselves on the same side of conflicts with Washington, this administration has made it easy for Beijing to present itself as the reliable and responsible global player.

Europe’s reluctance to side with the United States puts liberal democracy in danger. The closer Europe gets to China, the less opposition China will face in its efforts to re-shape norms—on issues like data and privacy, Internet freedom, AI and governance. To uphold their shared values, both the United States and Europe need to collectively push back against China’s unfair trade and investment practices, its blatant human rights abuses, and the anti-democratic norms and practices it seeks to spread. A Europe that refuses to pick sides is exactly what Beijing seeks to achieve. Beijing understood long ago that its rising economic influence would lead other countries to balance against it. In an effort to dilute Western opposition to its national interests, China has taken steps to interrupt Europe’s alignment with the United States.

Choosing the United States does not mean that Europe should forfeit all trade and economic relations with China. But as Europe advances its economic relationships with China, it must be clear-eyed about the risks that accompany those ties. Beijing expects that its economic influence will translate into lasting diplomatic leverage in Europe. It will use its investment to secure support for—or at least prevent the EU from taking a unified position against—human rights issues like Tibet, the mass detention of Uighurs in “re-education” camps in Xinjiang, and on geopolitical issues like Taiwan and the militarization of the South China Sea.

China is already using its economic relationships to pressure Europe to acquiesce to its efforts to neuter democracy and human rights protections. For example, in 2017, Greece blocked an EU statement at the UN criticizing China’s human rights record. This was almost certainly because of China’s growing economic investment in the country. As long as Europe continues to sit on the fence, actions like these will only continue.

What would it look like for Europe to get off the fence? 5G is at the forefront of the debate. Europe should follow Japan, Australia and New Zealand’s example and ban high-risk vendors like Huawei from building its 5G infrastructure. Allowing China—which has a history of intellectual property theft, cyber espionage and the absence of an independent judiciary that allows the CCP to leverage Chinese companies for political gain—to play a foundational role in Europe’s 5G future would aid in Chinese espionage, jeopardize U.S.-European intelligence sharing and present novel threats of disruption or exploitation. Yet despite the risks, Huawei continues to expand its foothold in Europe’s 5G landscape. Countries including the United Kingdom and the Netherlands are allowing use of Huawei equipment on non-core parts of their networks.

Europe could also work with the United States to develop a joint response to China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), which serves as a conduit for China’s influence and tactics. Here Europe and the United States could develop common transparency, environmental and social standards, and pool their financial resources to jointly invest in those countries where their interests are most at stake. Similarly, Europe could work with Washington to better insulate supply chains against Chinese influence. Finally, Europe and the United States could develop a set of common rules for data privacy and artificial intelligence and vocally criticize China for its blatant human rights abuses. Progress on any of these fronts would be welcome. But at the heart of the matter, Europe must clearly communicate to Beijing that it will unequivocally side with America to uphold democratic norms and standards.

For certain, there has been a shift in European views on China. Europeans are more aware and concerned by the challenges that China poses and have taken real steps to push back against it. But the message coming from Europe continues to convey an aversion to choosing between the United States and China. Europe must realize where its long-term interests lie, and not let this administration or the allure of economic gains prevent the right choice. The health of liberal democracy will depend on it.

With less than 90 days left until the United Kingdom is set to leave the EU, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has staked his new premiership on a “do or die” Brexit by October 31. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and Trade Secretary Liz Truss are crisscrossing North America as part of Downing Street’s latest push to shore up economic and political ties with key allies ahead of the looming withdrawal deadline. The United States will play a particularly important role for post-Brexit Britain regarding everything from trade to defense relations. Thus, London’s latest overtures to Washington are hugely significant for ensuring an orderly Brexit — deal or no deal.

Despite the importance of presidential–prime ministerial ties for the strength of Anglo–American relations, Congress remains the crucial player when it comes to any sort of free-trade agreement. Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution gives Congress the ability to regulate commerce with foreign countries, and both chambers of Congress must approve any trade agreement that the president has introduced.

Like much in Washington today, Congress remains divided on the possibility of a U.S.–U.K. free-trade deal, particularly over the question of Northern Ireland. Other concerns remain, including agricultural exports (such as the infamous chlorinated-chicken debate). However, fears over the return of a hard border in Ireland in the event of a no-deal Brexit have risen to prominence in recent weeks. Currently, goods and people can travel seamlessly between the North and the Republic of Ireland. A hard border would in theory result in physical demarcation of the border, and the resulting customs and immigration checks could negatively impact the region’s economy.

The Congressional Friends of Ireland caucus remains a hugely influential presence on Capitol Hill. The lobby’s bipartisan contingent, from Republican Pete King (N.Y.) to Democratic Ways and Means Committee chairman Richard Neal (Mass.) and Speaker Nancy Pelosi (Calif.), have all made it clear that the House will reject any proposed U.S.–U.K. agreement that potentially jeopardizes the landmark Northern Irish peace settlement, the Good Friday Agreement (GFA), to which the U.S. is a party. Pelosi reiterated these concerns during an April visit to the Irish border and during a “reportedly stormy” meeting with pro-Brexit MPs in London.

In contrast to the House’s approach, Senator Tom Cotton (R., Ark.) and 44 other Republican senators recently penned a letter to the prime minister, voicing their commitment to intelligence sharing and trade relations, as well as “continued, unwavering support for the special relationship between our two countries as Britain leaves the European Union.”

The Irish border debate has similarly become a thorny issue for Britain. Theresa May’s government was unable three times to pass her EU Withdrawal Agreement over the objection of Brexiteer and Northern Irish MPs because of its provisions regarding the Irish backstop, which would lock Britain into a potentially indefinite relationship with the EU in order to maintain frictionless trade between Ireland and Northern Ireland/Britain. Significantly, the Northern Irish Democratic Unionist Party’s 10 MPs are the only way Boris Johnson can command a razor-thin one-seat majority in the House of Commons.

Regardless of whether Britain leaves the EU, and with or without a deal, peace across the island of Ireland and ongoing enforcement of the GFA remain essential. The PM recently made clear that in the event of a no-deal Brexit, Britain will not enforce a hard border, border checks, or physical barriers; furthermore, he reiterated Britain’s commitment to the Union and the GFA, as well as a restoration of the devolved assembly in Belfast. The separatist Sinn Féin party, predictably, has called for a referendum on Irish reunification in the event of a no-deal Brexit, but no serious official thinks that no-deal could return Northern Ireland to The Troubles, the sectarian strife that plagued the region until the adoption of the GFA in 1998.

Unfortunately, Ireland and the EU have used the border question as a cudgel against London, insisting the backstop must stay in any withdrawal deal, and have used the specter of The Troubles to raise doubts even in Washington. Nevertheless, public support in Ireland for PM Leo Varadkar’s hardline Brexit stance has dropped dramatically, and senior officials in Dublin are similarly beginning to question his approach. Given this growing dissatisfaction and Ireland’s heavy economic ties to the U.K., the negative impact of a no-deal Brexit could force Varadkar and the EU’s hands over the backstop.

Ultimately, both Britain and the U.S. can take steps to allay some of the concerns over Northern Ireland and its role in trade negotiations. First, Britain’s new ambassador in Washington will have the ability to restructure the embassy’s operations in the U.S. The Irish embassy has been extremely influential on Capitol Hill, and the British should emulate Ireland’s impressive congressional engagement efforts to build enduring personal relationships with key members on the various armed-services, foreign-affairs, and trade-related committees. Along with frequent engagement by high-level British officials during visits to Washington, the embassy’s regular efforts to keep U.S. policymakers informed of goings-on in London could help reassure weary members of the U.K.’s commitment to the GFA and bolster Anglo–American legislative ties.

Second, since his appointment in 2017, U.S. ambassador to Great Britain Woody Johnson has been a strong advocate of U.S. interests in government circles across London and rural areas alike. The new British ambassador should take advantage of his/her new role and promote British interests across the U.S. Diplomacy should be more than just a heavy presence in Washington and New York. Frequent engagement across the country, from Phoenix to Philadelphia, can remind everyday Americans and government alike of Britain’s commitment to every facet of the special relationship.

Lastly, the position of U.S. special envoy for Northern Ireland remains vacant. Leo Varadkar has already urged the president to make such an appointment, and an American presence in Belfast would be an important way to demonstrate the U.S’s ongoing commitment to the peace process as well as U.S.–Irish and U.S.–U.K. ties, regardless of the final outcome of Brexit.

Peace in Northern Ireland will remain essential after Britain leaves the EU. Boris Johnson’s government has reaffirmed its commitment to defending the Union and upholding the Good Friday Agreement. American policymakers should not fear instability in Ireland, but instead welcome the chance to craft a trade deal and strengthen both the trans-Atlantic economy and our ties with our most important ally.

As you’ve probably heard by now, Donald Trump doesn’t like undocumented immigrants, unless they’re working for low pay and no benefits at one of his golf clubs. Confronted by his barbaric policies and rhetoric, the president’s defenders like to claim that he’s only taking a hard line against the “undocumented” part of the equation, and that such people wouldn’t have to worry about being subject to his cruelty if only they would just follow the law. The president, they insist, has no problem whatsoever with immigrants in general, he just wants them to come to the U.S. legally. Of course, in reality, this is not the case at all. Trump has previously endorsed legislation that would sharply slash legal immigration by 50% over the next 10 years; gutted the U.S. refugee program; complained about why “all these people from shithole [African and Haitian] countries come here”; and expressed a desire to only accept people from distinctly rich, white countries. Unfortunately for the president, he can’t simply slap a sign on the Statue of Liberty that says “Only white people whose father gave them millions of dollars to squander allowed!” So, he’s developed a nifty work-around.

On Monday, a week after State Department data revealed that the number of Mexicans refused visas to the U.S. because they might use government benefits had “skyrocketed,” the administration announced that it is setting new standards for obtaining a green card and citizenship. While the likelihood of becoming a “public charge” is already taken in account when being considered for permanent residency, under the new rules, much more emphasis will be placed on wealth, plus education, age, and English-language skills. According to the new policy for “Inadmissibility on Public Charge Grounds,” which was published in the Federal Register Monday and will go into effect in two months, factors that can count against a green card applicant include not having the money to cover “any reasonably foreseeable medical costs” related to a medical condition; having been approved to receive a public benefit, even if the person never received the benefit; “financial liabilities”; a low credit score; the absence of private health insurance; the absence of a college degree; and not having the English language skills “sufficient to enter the job market.” Per the Washington Post, analysts say the change could “dramatically reduce family-based legal immigration to the United States, particularly from Latin America and Africa, where incomes are generally lower than the rest of the world.,” which we assume was not just a happy coincidence.

“With one regulation, they are attempting to scratch two itches: one is penalizing immigrants for using public benefits that they are legally entitled to, and the other is cutting legal immigration in half,” Doug Rand, a former Obama administration official and an immigration consultant, told reporters Abigail Hauslohner, Maria Sacchetti, Tracy Jan, and Nick Miroff, “And the way you cut legal immigration in half is by kicking the doors out from the definition of ‘likely to become a public charge.” According to immigration groups and New York mayor’s office—which has announced plans to sue the administration—just “the anticipation of” the new rule “already has prompted a large number of legal immigrants to abstain from seeking federal financial assistance because they are afraid it will hinder their ability to become citizens or remain in the United States.” So the whole thing is putting immigrants in a fun position of damned if they do, damned if they don’t wherein they can either receive the public assistance they’re legally entitled to, in order to say, eat, and risk being denied a green card, or forgo food in the hopes of being allowed to stay in the country.

Speaking to reporters on Monday, Ken Cuccinelli, the acting director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, said the change was based in logic that would have precluded Trump from receiving a green card should he have been born in another country. “Trump’s administration is reinforcing the ideals of self-sufficiency and personal responsibility, ensuring that immigrants are able to support themselves and become successful here in America.” Cuccinelli also tried to claim that the new rule has absolutely nothing whatsoever to do with discriminating against poor people from Latin America:

Based on the most recent data, the bank’s global economist now sees a greater than 30% chance of a recession in the next year. “Our official model has the probability of a recession over the next 12 months only pegged at about 20%, but our subjective call based on the slew of data and events leads us to believe it is closer to a 1-in-3 chance,” Bank of America’s head of U.S. economics Michelle Meyer said in a note to clients Friday.

Uncertainty around the U.S.–China trade war and a global economic slowdown have caused interest rates to tumble and weighed on the major stock averages in recent weeks. Last month’s jobs report showed a strong consumer, but business investment is low as investors and business owners juggle new tariffs and fiscal policy uncertainty.

The U.S. fiscal deficit has already exceeded the full-year figure for last year, as spending growth outpaces revenue.

The gap grew to $866.8 billion in the first 10 months of the fiscal year, up 27% from the same period a year earlier, the Treasury Department said in its monthly budget report on Monday. That’s wider than last fiscal year’s shortfall of $779 billion -- which was the largest federal deficit since 2012.

So far in the fiscal year that began Oct. 1, a revenue increase of 3% hasn’t kept pace with a 8% rise in spending. While still a modest source of income, tariffs imposed by the Trump administration helped almost double customs duties to $57 billion in the period.

Trump Signs Budget and Debt-Limit Legislation, White House Says

Republican tax cuts, increased federal spending and an aging population have contributed to the fiscal strains, though the GOP says tax reform enacted last year will spur economic growth and lift government revenue. Corporate income-tax receipts rose 3% between October and July, while individual income taxes gained 1%, according to Treasury data.

The annual budget deficit is expected to exceed $1 trillion starting in 2022, the Congressional Budget Office has said. The non-partisan agency is scheduled to update its latest 10-year budget and economic forecasts on Aug. 21.

For the month of July, the budget deficit was $119.7 billion, compared with $76.9 billion a year earlier, according to Treasury. Still, “July 2019 was a record receipts month, and the month is generally a deficit month -- 63 of the last 65 times,” a senior Treasury official said in an accompanying statement.

As the United States appears to be nearing a deal with the Taliban on pulling its troops from Afghanistan, the country’s security forces are in their worst state in years — almost completely on the defensive in much of the country, according to local military commanders and civilian officials.

Afghan commanders vowed last year to take the offensive, rather than go on fighting a static “checkpoint war.” But in most major battlegrounds, the bulk of the regular Afghan forces are still holed up in fortified bases and outposts. Most offensive operations have been left to small numbers of Afghan and U.S. Special Operations soldiers, backed by both countries’ air forces.

The woeful state of the regular Afghan forces has been widely seen as giving the Taliban a valuable edge in its negotiations with the United States, which have gone on for eight rounds in Doha, Qatar, and are believed to be near a conclusion. An announcement could come as early as Tuesday, but also may be delayed, perhaps for weeks.

An analysis of more than 2,300 combat deaths of government forces, compiled in daily casualty reports by The New York Times from January through July, found that more than 87% occurred during Taliban attacks on bases, checkpoints or command centers. These numbers indicate that the Taliban can attack many such bases almost at will.

During that seven-month period, the Taliban mounted more than 280 such attacks — an average of more than one a day.

“Police and soldiers are stuck in their bases,” said Abdul Aziz Beg, head of the district council in Badghis province in western Afghanistan. “The Taliban are killing security forces easily, but no one pays attention.”

Local government officials in several provinces said the only ground operations against the Taliban were being carried out by the U.S.-backed Afghan special forces.

“They come here, kill some people and arrest some, and that’s it. When they leave, the Taliban come back” and kill regular troops in their bases, said Rahmatullah Qaisari, a district governor in Faryab province in northern Afghanistan.

“To make people happy, security officials announce operations,” said Tor Khan Zarifi, a tribal elder in Herat province in the north. “These operations are kind of showoff — they don’t have any impact.”

A senior U.S. military official, speaking on condition of anonymity to discuss military operations, acknowledged that the Afghans were increasingly relying on elite units such as commandos and special police units to attack the Taliban. He said regular Afghan units still sustained most of their casualties while trying to hold on to territory anchored by bases and checkpoints.

Dan Coats, the U.S. director of national intelligence, told Congress this year that outside urban areas, “Afghan security suffers from a large number of forces being tied down in defensive missions, mobility shortfalls and a lack of reliable forces to hold recaptured territory.”

Afghanistan’s minister of defense, Asadullah Khalid, said that since taking command in December he had worked to shift regular forces out of their defensive posture.

“Their mindset has changed from defensive to offensive,” Khalid said. “Let’s be clear: These bases are not for us to just stay there and sleep there. They are going out on the offense.”

But Khalid also said that some regular forces had sustained high casualty rates this year during Taliban attacks on checkpoints and bases, in areas where the militants were not threatened by government offensives.

“We are trying to reverse that situation,” he said.

Only about 3% of the 2,300 deaths in the casualty reports compiled by The Times this year occurred during offensive combat operations carried out by regular forces. Among those were troops killed in Taliban ambushes after being sent to reinforce besieged bases or checkpoints.

Roughly 10% of the deaths occurred in other actions, away from bases and checkpoints. They were attributed to roadside bombs; attacks on convoys; snipers; insider attacks; friendly fire; and ambushes of soldiers or police who were on food runs, driving to work, in their homes, in bazaars, at weddings, in mosques or in clinics.

The casualty reports are compiled daily by Times reporters across Afghanistan. They are based on interviews with local government and security officials, district council members, village elders, local members of parliament and other sources.

According to the Ministry of Defense’s own combat reports, roughly seven times as many offensive operations have been carried out by commandos as by regular security forces. And the number of Afghan Air Force strikes has typically been far higher than the number of operations by regular forces.

For July, the ministry reported 2,825 operations by commandos and 651 airstrikes, compared with 409 operations by regular forces. Khalid said that in many operations, commandos were backed by regular forces.

The ministry said the July operations had killed more than 2,400 insurgents. As of Aug. 7, nearly 4,800 insurgents had been killed this year, said Gen. Khoshal Sadat, a defense ministry official. Both sides routinely inflate enemy casualty reports.

The ministry reports do not mention government casualties. After May 2017, the Afghan military stopped releasing its casualty figures. The information has since been treated as classified by the U.S. military at the Afghans’ request.

By all accounts, Afghan security forces outnumber the insurgents. Yet the casualty numbers have been steadily rising among soldiers and police who were guarding bases and outposts, rather than engaged in actual battles.

On June 30, for instance, 58 members of the security forces were reported to have been killed in two separate Taliban attacks — on a military base in the southern province of Kandahar, and on two checkpoints in Kunduz province in the north.

Asked about those incidents, Khalid said the Taliban had suffered higher casualties than had government forces, and that they had failed to capture the base or the checkpoints.

Three weeks later, on July 25, the Taliban briefly overran two military bases in Takhar province in northern Afghanistan. Local officials said up to 37 troops were killed.

Increasingly, the only Afghan units truly on the offensive are special forces commandos, who often partner with U.S. Special Operations troops for combined ground and air operations.

“The weight of the Afghan war is mostly on the shoulders of commandos and the air force — they are doing all the offensive operations,” said Gharzai Khowakhozhai, a former army general and a military analyst in Kabul, the capital. “Regular forces are not doing their job properly.”

Among others there was Mr. A.
He is a nephew of Mr. Yamada.
You are Mr. Smith, I suppose.
Dr. Sato's office.
Revised by Dr. Tanaka.
Dr. Bagoff's office.
Air contains many substances, e.g. oxygen, nitrogen and carbon dioxide.
lysis can be caused by chemical or physical means (e.g., high-energy sound waves) or by a virus infection.
the presence of an extra chromosome, resulting in a total of three copies of that chromosome instead of the normal 2 copies (e.g., trisomy 21, or down syndrome).
Hello, is this Mrs. Brown
Mr. and Mrs. Yamada live two doors away from America.
Mrs. Uchida was quite unruffled.
I was shocked at the news of Prof. T's death.
I hear that Prof. Ikeda read the Tale of Genji right through a hundred times.
Prof. Torii was the chief examiner of my graduation thesis.
O'Reilly Associates, Inc., 2001.
Hirai Co. Inc. (food manufacture).
rofecoxib was taken off the market in the u.s. because of safety concerns.
vioxx was taken off the market in the u.s. because of safety concerns.
dars are required by the u.s. food and drug administration (fda).
to take over a person's business etc. in the middle.
to copy the behavior, appearance, speech, etc., of someone.
outskirts, border, coast, etc. of region of land.
Fig.I shows the apparatus in side view.
Fig.2-1-23 Cause of partnerships.
Fig.3-2-23 Storage period for patterns.
Let us look at Fig.3-3-7.
Fig.2 is a sectional view taken along line A-A of Fig.1.
Fig. 2 shows the outside appearance of a white key 2, Fig. 2(a) a left side view, Fig. 2(b) a plan, and Fig. 2(c) a left side view respectively.
Flies prefer honey to jam. Cf. Smith (1952).
The new system was invented by Christopher et al.
Although very distinctive in appearance, the fly agaric has been mistaken for other yellow to red species in the Americas, like Armillaria cf. mellea and the edible Amanita basii—a Mexican species similar to A. caesarea of Europe.
In MN 4, Seorsumuscardinus has been recorded from Oberdorf, Austria (sites 3 and 4, which yielded 6 and 17 Seorsumuscardinus alpinus teeth, respectively); Karydia, Greece (S. alpinus); and Tägernaustrasse, Switzerland (5 teeth; S. cf. alpinus).
According to advance research by Ishido, et al.(2003) and others, prices gaps of up to 1.25 times are usually seen as horizontal intra-industry trade.
The prism edges in the original Castaing-Henry EELS system were curved to reduce second-order aberrations (Andrew et al., 1978).
The following introduces an analysis by Bresnahan et al. (2000) which was carried out on the corporate level using the above approach in the u.s.
The results of this effort are reported in Band et al.（1986）and Ford et al.（1987).
A recent published observation during the 1997 solar eclipse by Wang et al. suggested a possible gravitational shielding effect, which generated debate.
A report in 2010 by Nekaris et al. reported that Laos, Cambodia, and Thailand were the primary exporters of slow lorises, with Singapore and Malaysia also involved.
By examining the eruption rate of individual volcanoes, Hildreth et al. concluded that similar amounts of ash-flow volcanism took place in the southern sector as well.
Culver et al. suggest that the original North American population of Puma concolor was extirpated during the Pleistocene extinctions some 10,000 years ago, when other large mammals such as Smilodon also disappeared.
Discovered by Fox et al. in 2002, paraspeckles are irregularly shaped compartments in the nucleus' interchromatin space.
For this reason Gladman et al. prefer to refer to the region as the scattering disc, rather than scattered.
García-Sánchez et al. predicted that Proxima will make its closest approach to the Sun, coming within 3.11 light years of the latter, in approximately 26,700 years.
However, in that study Maguire, et al.. examined the correlation between size of the grey matter and length of time that had been spent as a taxi driver, and found a positive correlation between the length of time an individual had spent as a taxi driver and the volume of the right hippocampus.
In 1988, Hamilton et al. wrote procedures for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to establish oxygen exposure limits for habitat operations.
In 1994, Danchi et al. reported that Betelgeuse undergoes sporadic dust production involving decades of activity followed by inactivity.
In 2001, Brownell et al. re-evaluated the conservation status of the North Pacific right whale as a distinct species, and in 2002, the Scientific Committee of the International Whaling Commission (IWC) accepted Rosenbaum's findings, and recommended that the Eubalaena nomenclature be retained for this genus.
In 2004, Mike Brown et al. determined the existence of crystalline water ice and ammonia hydrate on one of the largest known KBOs, 50000 Quaoar.
In 2005, Cieslak et al. conducted the first comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of the entire genus Pinguicula.
The letter comes as The New York Times reported over the weekend that the Times had interviewed more individuals who had corroborated the allegation of Deborah Ramirez, a Yale classmate who alleged Kavanaugh had exposed himself to her at a dorm room party. The Times also reported that there was another previously undisclosed allegation raised by Max Stier, a Yale classmate who told the Times that he had witnessed Kavanaugh engage in another, similar incident.

CNN is not reporting any details of the accusation and has not independently corroborated the account. The Times on Sunday evening published an Editor's Note to its original story saying the female victim declined to be interviewed, and her friends told the authors she does not recall the incident.

In a letter dated October 2, 2018, Sen. Chris Coons, a Democrat from Delaware, sent a letter to the FBI requesting that the agency talk to individuals that had more information about Kavanaugh. Specifically, Coons suggested the FBI talk to Stier. It's unclear from the letter exactly what information Stier had, but Coons suggests the FBI talk to him. Stier's name in the letter is redacted in the version seen by CNN, but an aide for Coons told CNN that that the name was Stier's. Coons had copied then-Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley, an Iowa Republican, and its top Democrat, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California.

In the letter to the FBI, Coons wrote that his office had been contacted by numerous individuals who had information to share with the FBI as part of their investigation into Kavanaugh, and while he could not speak to "the relevancy or veracity of the information that many of these individuals seek to provide ... there is one individual whom I would like to specifically refer to you for appropriate follow up." The letter goes on to say the individual is "a Yale College classmate of Kavanaugh and Ramirez with information relevant to Ramirez's allegations."

An aide familiar with the letter told CNN that the FBI acknowledged receipt of Coons' letter at the time, but the senator never heard more beyond that.

According to a Republican source familiar with the letter, both Grassley and Feinstein were copied on the letter to the FBI from Coons. The source notes that Stier's contact information was in there but not any specific allegation. Additionally the source says Stier did not bring the allegation directly to Grassley.
A number of 2020 candidates demanded Kavanaugh's impeachment after the New York Times published excerpts of a new book containing details about sexual misconduct allegations that he has previously denied, but that revived the raw emotions spurred by his fight for confirmation last year.

"Brett Kavanaugh lied to the U.S. Senate and most importantly to the American people," California Sen. Kamala Harris wrote Sunday morning on Twitter. "He was put on the Court through a sham process and his place on the Court is an insult to the pursuit of truth and justice."

The Democratic front-runner, Joe Biden, stopped short Sunday evening of calling for impeachment but raised concerns about the integrity of Kavanaugh's confirmation process.

Trump barged into the fray in Kavanaugh's defense, relishing the opening to revive one of the most emotional and GOP-unifying chapters of his presidency.

"Brett Kavanaugh should start suing people for libel, or the Justice Department should come to his rescue. The lies being told about him are unbelievable," Trump tweeted Sunday morning.

The eagerness of both sides to engage reflects the confrontation's potential to fire up base activists and an understanding that the fate of the Supreme Court has rarely been more important to the outcome of political and culture wars following signature decisions on the 2000 election, campaign finance, same sex marriage, abortion and health care.

The reports are reviving the pitched political exchanges that threatened Kavanaugh's confirmation, most notably over allegations by Christine Blasey Ford that he assaulted her when he was drunk at a party when both were teenagers. Kavanaugh vehemently denied the claims.

New scrutiny on confirmation process

Two Times reporters who wrote the book said they corroborated a prior claim of sexual misconduct against Kavanaugh. They also concluded the FBI interviewed none of the potential witnesses, throwing new scrutiny on White House officials and Republicans who strong armed his confirmation last year.

The book also contains a former male classmate's new allegation that the authors say was corroborated by two sources. The authors reported the former classmate came forward to the FBI and senators concerning an incident he witnessed and said the FBI did not investigate the claim.

The New York Times Sunday evening published an Editor's Note saying the female victim declined to be interviewed and friends say she does not recall the incident.

A person close to Kavanaugh told CNN the accusation isn't new because, according to the book's authors, it had been reported to the FBI and some on Capitol Hill. This person said, citing the new book, that some Democratic senators, despite having been told of the allegations before Kavanaugh was confirmed, did not act.

CNN is not reporting any details related to the allegation because it has not independently verified it.

A Supreme Court spokeswoman said Kavanaugh had no comment on the new allegation against the justice or the calls for impeachment.

'This is the game they play'

Far from playing down the fresh controversy to allow Kavanaugh to quietly repair his reputation and embark quietly on his lifetime appointment to the Court, Trump escalated it.

The President must supercharge GOP turnout to win in 2020, so is happy to exploit the latest Kavanaugh controversy to remind his base of one of his key achievements, the installation of a conservative majority on the Supreme Court against fierce liberal opposition.

The clash plays into his desire to frame Democrats as entrapped by radicals who want to march the country left and who he claims are smearing the reputation of an innocent man in their desperation to thwart conservative goals. Trump also is keen to position himself as a bulwark against Democratic hopes of reshaping the Court in order to appeal to crucial evangelical voters.

"Can't let Brett Kavanaugh give Radical Left Democrat (Liberal Plus) Opinions based on threats of Impeaching him over made up stories (sound familiar?), false allegations, and lies.

"This is the game they play. Fake and Corrupt News is working overtime! #ProtectKavanaugh" Trump tweeted.

A new skirmish over a potent base politics issue comes at an ideal moment for Trump, whose approval rating has recently dipped below 40% — a danger sign ahead of a reelection bid.

Trump demanded that his Justice Department "rescue" Kavanaugh, and advised the judge to sue over the book. He also accused Democrats of trying to influence the rulings of the newest justice, an ironic comment given his own relentless habit of publicly attacking judges and complaining about their verdicts.

His remark about the Justice Department also calls to mind previous occasions when the President has appeared to seek to leverage its power to counter political opponents.

Trump's foes were already up in arms over the department's role in the Kavanaugh drama after it emerged Friday that Attorney General William Barr plans to confer a distinguished service award on the department team that worked on the nomination.

Reflecting the unifying nature of Supreme Court controversies, Mitch McConnell also came to Kavanaugh's defense on Sunday. The Senate Majority leader's expert and controversial handling of nominations to the top bench has done more than any other single factor to enshrine a conservative majority.

"The far left's willingness to seize on completely uncorroborated and unsubstantiated allegations during last year's confirmation process was a dark and embarrassing chapter for the Senate," the Kentucky Republican wrote on Twitter.

"Fortunately a majority of Senators and the American people rallied behind timeless principles such as due process and the presumption of innocence. I look forward to many years of service to come from Justice Kavanaugh."

Democrats playing catch-up over Supreme Court politics

Kavanaugh's confirmation was especially inflammatory because it took place against a backdrop of the #MeToo movement that fundamentally altered the attention society paid to decades of sexual harassment allegations made by women in show business, politics, journalism, the media and the corporate world.

Combined with anger over the defeat of Hillary Clinton in 2016 and allegations of sexual misconduct against Trump — which he has denied — the Kavanaugh saga electrified the liberal base but also a wider cohort of women voters who will be pivotal in 2020.

While Republicans have used the Supreme Court as a campaign trail rallying cry for years, Democrats have been slower to exploit what has become a pivotal societal question.

But the aggressive response to the new Kavanaugh allegations demonstrates that the left is now just as motivated by the Supreme Court as conservative voters.

As the New York Times report broke Saturday night, Democratic candidate Julián Castro tweeted that it was clearer than ever that Kavanaugh "lied under oath. He should be impeached."

The former Housing and Urban Development Secretary called on Congress to review the "failure" of the Justice Department to properly investigate allegations against Kavanaugh.

Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, former Texas Rep Beto O'Rourke and South Bend, Indiana, Mayor Pete Buttigieg all called for Kavanaugh's impeachment.

Later Sunday, Harris urged supporters to sign a petition calling for Kavanaugh's impeachment. Warren complained that Kavanaugh's confirmation was pushed through the Senate without a full investigation of allegations against him.

"Confirmation is not exoneration, and these newest revelations are disturbing. Like the man who appointed him, Kavanaugh should be impeached," she tweeted.

Biden did not call for impeachment but said in a statement that the New York Times story raised "profoundly troubling questions about the integrity of the confirmation process that put Brett Kavanaugh on the Supreme Court in the first place."

And the former vice president, who has been criticized in this campaign for his handling in 1991 as Senate Judiciary Committee chairman of confirmation hearings in which Anita Hill raised sexual harassment allegations against Clarence Thomas, said women who raise allegations against powerful men need to be heard.

"It takes enormous courage for a woman to come forward, under the bright lights of millions of people watching, and relive a traumatic memory," he said.

In practice, there is a minuscule chance that Kavanaugh would be convicted of any impeachment charges brought by the Democratic House, given the need for a two-thirds majority in the Republican-held Senate.
The excerpt from "The Education of Brett Kavanaugh: An Investigation," written by Times reporters Robin Pogrebin and Kate Kelly, revisits an allegation raised during the Supreme Court justice's confirmation process in 2018. That allegation from Deborah Ramirez accused Kavanaugh of exposing himself to her at a party when he was a freshman at Yale, according to an account published in The New Yorker. Kavanaugh has repeatedly denied the allegation.

The book revisits Ramirez's claim and contains a former male classmate's new allegation which the authors say was corroborated by two sources. The authors reported the former classmate came forward to the FBI and senators concerning an incident he witnessed and said the FBI did not investigate the incident.

The New York Times Sunday evening published an Editor's Note saying the female victim declined to be interviewed and friends say she does not recall the incident.

A person close to Kavanaugh told CNN the accusation isn't new because, according to the book's authors, it had previously been reported to the FBI and some on Capitol Hill. This person said, citing the new book, that some Democratic senators, despite having been told of the allegations before Kavanaugh was confirmed, did not act.

CNN is not reporting any details related to the allegation because CNN has not independently verified it.

Trump tweeted Sunday that Kavanaugh "should start suing people for libel, or the Justice Department should come to his rescue." (The President initially misspelled the word "libel" before deleting the tweet and correcting the word in a subsequent tweet.)

In nominating Kavanaugh, Trump seized a rare opportunity to solidify a conservative majority for a generation on the Supreme Court. The President and those who worked to get him on the bench are now waiting to see if their calculation was correct, and for a sense of how far and how fast the conservative majority will move.

A Supreme Court spokeswoman said Kavanuagh had no comment on the new allegation against the justice or the calls for impeachment.

The President's pick for the Supreme Court faced allegations of sexual misconduct that threatened to derail his confirmation in 2018.

Christine Blasey Ford, a California professor and the first accuser to come forward, testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee that Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her at a party when they were both teenagers. He has also denied that allegation.

Trump at the time sought to discredit Ford and Ramirez, and said Kavanaugh was "under assault." He mocked and imitated Ford at a campaign rally, and accused Democrats of masterminding "a con game" against his Supreme Court nominee.

Conservatives throughout the controversy largely stood by Kavanaugh, who was confirmed in October to take former Justice Anthony Kennedy's seat after the vicious approval battle and a 50-48 Senate vote.

Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell tweeted Sunday he looks forward "to many years of service to come from Justice Kavanaugh."

"Fortunately a majority of Senators and the American people rallied behind timeless principles such as due process and the presumption of innocence," McConnell wrote.

2020 Democrats respond

Several Democratic presidential candidates were quick to weigh in Sunday, with some calling for Kavanaugh's impeachment from the high court.

California Sen. Kamala Harris, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, tweeted Kavanaugh should be impeached.

"I sat through those hearings. Brett Kavanaugh lied to the U.S. Senate and most importantly to the American people," Harris wrote. "He was put on the Court through a sham process and his place on the Court is an insult to the pursuit of truth and justice."

Former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro also called for Kavanaugh's impeachment and for an investigation into the latest allegation. "Congress should review the failure of the Department of Justice to properly investigate the matter," Castro said.

In a separate tweet, Castro fired back at Trump's Sunday Kavanaugh comments. "The Department of Justice isn't your law firm, or Brett Kavanaugh's. Even if (Attorney General) Bill Barr acts like your lawyer," Castro said in reference to Trump's tweet defending the Supreme Court justice.

Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar, also a member of the Judiciary Committee, told ABC's "This Week" on Sunday she strongly opposed Kavanaugh's confirmation, and accused Barr of "shielding documents" related to the allegations against Kavanaugh.

"I strongly opposed him, based on his views on executive power, which will continue to haunt our country, as well as how he behaved, including the allegations that we are hearing more about today," Klobuchar told ABC.

Klobuchar said the "process was a sham" and added, "I don't think that you can look at impeachment hearings without getting the documents -- the House would have to get the documents -- and the Attorney General is shielding documents." She said all of the relevant information needs to come forward before considering an impeachment process against Kavanaugh.

Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren called the new revelations "disturbing," saying on Twitter, "Like the man who appointed him, Kavanaugh should be impeached."

Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders wrote on Twitter, "The revelations today confirm what we already knew: During his hearing, Kavanaugh faced credible accusations and likely lied to Congress. I support any appropriate constitutional mechanism to hold him accountable."

Former Texas congressman Beto O'Rourke tweeted, "Yesterday, we learned of another accusation against Brett Kavanaugh — one we didn't find out about before he was confirmed because the Senate forced the F.B.I. to rush its investigation to save his nomination. We know he lied under oath. He should be impeached."

South Bend, Indiana, mayor Pete Buttigieg called on Kavanaugh to resign and said, "if he doesn't, the House should impeach him."

Former Vice President Joe Biden did not call for Kavanaugh's impeachment Sunday, saying "We must follow the evidence to wherever it leads."

"Doing this the right way is critically important in getting the truth and restoring the American people's faith in their government," Biden added. "The women who continue to come forward, as Dr. Blasey Ford courageously did, deserve to be treated with dignity and be listened to. It takes enormous courage for a woman to come forward, under the bright lights of millions of people watching, and relive a traumatic memory."
The Trump administration upgraded the incident into a global crisis with its swift move to directly blame Iran for the coordinated drone strike. The strike was claimed by Houthi rebels that Tehran supports in Yemen.

The President's comments sparked immediate uncertainty over whether he was being serious or whether this tension-raising tweet was -- like a similar warning once aimed at North Korea -- a risky negotiating tactic.

It is unclear whether his "locked and loaded" phraseology threatens military force against Iran, its proxies in Iraq or Yemen or some kind of US response that stops short of retaliatory attacks.

In fresh sign of the administration's incoherent messaging on a war-or-peace issue, Vice President Mike Pence's chief of staff Marc Short appeared to try to draw the US back from the brink on Monday morning.

"I think that 'locked and loaded' is a broad term and talks about the realities that we're all far safer and more secure domestically from energy independence," he told reporters.

But Trump's aggressive response already has raised the possibility that the US could become embroiled in a military confrontation between two bitter regional rivals that could quickly spin out of control.

The latest developments also underscore that even without recently departed Iran hawk John Bolton in the White House, the path of US Iran policy perpetually courts the risk of a dangerous escalation.

They also highlight the head-spinning nature of Trump's foreign policy. The President had recently seemed to be trying to set up a meeting with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani as he goes in pursuit of big wins abroad to boost his reelection bid. Now, he's apparently threatening war.

"There is reason to believe that we know the culprit, are locked and loaded depending on verification, but are waiting to hear from the Kingdom as to who they believe was the cause of this attack, and under what terms we would proceed!" Trump tweeted on Sunday.

Confusion about Trump's intentions at a time of flaring tensions with Iran was compounded by another of his tweets on Monday morning that appeared to downplay the effect of the oil refinery attack on US interests.

"We are a net Energy Exporter, & now the Number One Energy Producer in the World. We don't need Middle Eastern Oil & Gas, & in fact have very few tankers there, but will help our Allies!"

That tweet bolstered a growing impression that US foreign policy at any moment depends on Trump's whiplash mood reflected by his often contradictory tweets, a culture of inconsistency that US adversaries may now be exploiting.

On Sunday, for instance, Trump claimed reports that he had agreed to meet Rouhani with "no conditions" was incorrect. But Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said Thursday the President "has said he would sit down with Rouhani with no conditions."

Risks of war

If he was intending to rattle Iran but not signal military action, Trump's brinkmanship will spark fresh fears that his hyper personal approach could inadvertently drag the US into a conflict that could quickly escalate with unpredictable, damaging consequences in the Middle East and beyond.

US officials Sunday pointed to satellite imagery provided to CNN showing the oil facilities were struck from the northwest, suggesting an attack from Iraq, where Tehran has proxies or Iran, among other information. Tehran has denied any involvement.

But if the attack was the work of Iran there will be speculation that Tehran has concluded that the President's previous unwillingness to back up his rhetoric with military force during a previous confrontation in July and the departure of Bolton, means Washington is unlikely to respond to any provocation.

That would set up a classic scenario whereby misunderstood signals and careless escalations can drag two adversaries into a conflict neither really wants.

The implication meanwhile that the President was awaiting a go ahead from Saudi Arabia also opened him up to accusations he was outsourcing US military action to a foreign power.

It also highlighted how his hardline anti-Iran policy has put all US chips on Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman who is seen by many Washington foreign policy experts as aggressive and unpredictable and presiding over an ill-advised war in Yemen that has ignited a devastating humanitarian crisis.

So far, the United States, for all its tough talk, has not provided any proof that Iran was directly behind an attack whose sophistication raised suspicions it was beyond the Houthis.

Given the President's propensity to peddle untruths, the burden of truth for any military strike would be high -- even higher than it would have been given that inaccurate intelligence led the US into its last major war in the Middle East, in Iraq.

Questions about Iran's calculations

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo first raised the stakes over the strike at the Saudi oil facility on Saturday.

"Tehran is behind nearly 100 attacks on Saudi Arabia while Rouhani and Zarif pretend to engage in diplomacy. Amid all the calls for de-escalation, Iran has now launched an unprecedented attack on the world's energy supply. There is no evidence the attacks came from Yemen," Pompeo wrote.

His unequivocal declaration all but boxed the United States into a strong response to the attack, possibly involving some kind of military action.

Yet it also begs the question whether the President is fully on board with his own secretary of state who is now wielding even more power over US foreign policy with Bolton gone.

Trump said he decided in June to pull back a military strike against Iran at the last moment because it would have killed many civilians and was not proportionate to avenge the downing of a US drone over the Gulf of Oman by the Islamic Republic.

There were subsequent reports that he complained that his aides were trying to goad him into a war with Iran that could contradict his campaign vow to avoid new Middle East entanglement.

If Iran or an Iranian proxy does turn out to be behind an attack that sent global oil prices soaring, there will be questions about the Islamic Republic's motivation and how it is calculating its response to Trump's policies.

The developments could suggest Iran has no intention of responding to any US overtures, following Trump's decision to pull out of the nuclear deal forged by his predecessor Barack Obama and the adoption of a "maximum pressure" sanctions campaign.

Iranian politics are notoriously difficult to judge from the outside. But the crisis could also indicate that factions in the Islamic Republic are seeking to squelch any political maneuvering room for any leaders who are open to talking to the US.

Rouhani did not specifically reference the attack on the Saudi facility in an address on Iran's Press TV Sunday but did accuse Americans of running a "war operation" by supporting the UAE and Saudi Arabia.

On Monday, an Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman said that a meeting between Trump and Rouhani at the UN General Assembly in New York next week was not on the agenda but didn't directly rule it out.

Recent developments would seem to close Trump's latitude for a meeting. But the President cares little for convention and would love to spring a surprise.
I’m almost done w/ my job.
You w/ me? － yup
He went to the party w/o me.
I can’t live w/o you.
ILY hun.（I love you, honey）
Please return my call a.s.a.p.
I need your help a.s.a.p.
BTW, any plans for 2moro?
TGIF! I can’t wait for the weekend.
TGIF! － Yeah, I’m so happy! Have a nice weekend!
Don’t be scared. YOLO!
YOLO! Might as well enjoy it.
hey, r u there?
Sry, I was afk.
AFK, someone is calling me.
I’ll be afk for 5 mins.
Did u watch the video? lol.
Hang out 2nite?
OMG!
1. Alice tosses a coin, commits to the outcome bA (heads = 0, tails = 1) and sends the commitment to Bob.
2. Bob also tosses a coin and sends the result bB to Alice.
3. Alice opens her commitment by sending the additional informa-tion to Bob.
1. The sender sends the bit b he wants to commit to, in encrypted form, to the receiver.
2. The sender sends additional information to the receiver, enabling the receiver to recover b.
1. In the commit step, the receiver does not learn anything about the committed value. He cannot distinguish a commitment to 0 from a commitment to 1.
2. The sender cannot change the committed value after the commit step. This requirement has to be satisfied, even if the sender tries to cheat.
3. If both the sender and the receiver follow the protocol, the receiver will always recover the committed value.
1. Bob can generate p, q, g and v as in the DSA (see Section 3.5.3).
I obtained my Ph.D. degree in 1993.
a person with a Ph.D. who cannot find employment.
The first semester of PH.D. is classified as M.A.
The Bayer-Groth proof uses a generalisation of Pedersen commitments with multiple generators H, G1, G2, ..., Gn.
They describe the scheme as “computationally binding under the discrete logarithm assumption,” (p.5).
Thus, we may construct
Using this adaptation we are able to construct an efficient multiexponentiation argument that a ciphertext C is the product of a set of known ciphertexts C1, ... , CN raised to a set of hidden committed values a1, ... , aN.
What do the letters P.S. stand for?
Will you please add a postscript [a p.s.] to your letter saying that I got home yesterday?
A U.S. intelligence official alarmed by President Trump’s communications with a foreign leader filed an official whistleblower complaint last month with the inspector general for the intelligence community, the Washington Post reports.
Trump’s interactions with the leader, whose identity has not been disclosed, included what the Post described as “a promise” the official “regarded as so troubling” that the official came forward.
It’s not clear what form the interaction took place, though one intelligence official told the Post that it was a phone call.
Intelligence Community Inspector General Michael Atkinson found the complaint, which was filed on Aug. 12, to be credible and designated the matter of “urgent concern,” a legal classification that is supposed to prompt the notification of oversight committees in Congress.
Acting director of national intelligence Joseph Maguire, however, has so far refused to share the whistleblower’s concerns with Congress, setting off yet another power struggle between congressional leaders and the Trump administration, as well as speculation over what leader Trump may have acted inappropriately with.
The New York Times reporters behind the controversial piece about Supreme Court Associate Justice Brett Kavanaugh claimed on Wednesday night that he had agreed to be interviewed for their book under the condition that they write that they didn't speak with him.

Appearing at a National Press Club event in Washington D.C., Robin Pogrebin and Kate Kelly, the co-authors of the new book "The Education of Brett Kavanaugh: An Investigation," said Kavanaugh was willing to sit down with the them, but ultimately fell through because of his demand.

"Brett Kavanaugh agreed to talk to @katekelly and @rpogrebin for their book - If they wrote that they didn't talk to him," National Press Club president Allison Kodjak tweeted.
"The authors - who told the story tonight @PressClubDC, refused and walked away from the interview."
On Monday, Pogrebin and Kelly claimed that the key information missing from their piece was in the original draft and suggested that the editors removed it.

"In your draft of the article, did it include those words that have since been added to the article?" MSNBC host Lawrence O'Donnell asked.

"It did," both Pogrebin and Kelly responded.

"So somewhere in the editing process, those words were trimmed," O'Donnell said in clarification.

Pogrebin then explained that The Times doesn't usually include names of victims and that she believed that when the editors removed the name, the crucial information that she didn't remember was also removed.

"So I think it was just sort of an editing, you know, done in the haste in the editing process," Pogrebin added.
According to AdGuard, the real purpose of these fake ad blocking extensions is “cookie stuffing,” which is used as an ad fraud scheme.
Within minutes of the alarm going off shortly after 5 p.m. local time (11 p.m. ET) authorities were trying to calm the public by getting out word of the mistake.
The National Weather Service in Honolulu tweeted: "***NO TSUNAMI THREAT*** We have received phone calls about sirens going off across Oahu, but we have confirmed with the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center that there is NO TSUNAMI THREAT."
"Mahalo to everyone for taking appropriate action & tuning into local media," he tweeted, adding that the sirens had been "inadvertently triggered" during Honolulu Police Department training.
The incident reminded residents of a heart-stopping January 13, 2018 false warning of a ballistic missile attack which occurred amid especially bellicose rhetoric between President Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. Just days before the mistaken alert, Kim had warned that the nuclear button is "always on my desk" and Trump retorted with a tweet: "I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!"
"I am pleased to announce that I will name Robert C. O'Brien, currently serving as the very successful Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs at the State Department, as our new National Security Advisor.
Trump personally dispatched O'Brien to help free US rapper A$AP Rocky from Swedish prison earlier this year.
Introducing O'Brien to reporters on the tarmac of Los Angeles International Airport, Trump hailed his "tremendous track record" securing the release of hostages and said "we know each other well," adding "Robert's been fantastic" as a hostage negotiator and that the US hasn't spent any money to secure the hostages' release.
"Robert O'Brien said, 'Trump is the greatest hostage negotiator in history.'
At a ceremony in Jerusalem on Thursday, President Reuven Rivlin welcomed the prime minister's "important call".
Mr Gantz's Blue and White alliance is 0.77% ahead of Mr Netanyahu's right-wing Likud party. The Joint List, an alliance of Arab parties, is in third place, the ultra-Orthodox Shas party in fourth, and the nationalist Yisrael Beiteinu party in fifth.
Mr Netanyahu also referenced the unity government between Shimon Peres and Yitzhak Shamir in the 1980s - which some local media saw as a hint towards a possible rotating premiership.
The Federal Reserve announced Wednesday that its Open Market Committee had voted to cut the federal funds rate by 25 basis points to a range of 1.75% to 2%.
The federal funds rate is the benchmark interest rate that banks use when lending to one another.
Interest rates on loans and deposits are typically influenced by the Federal Reserve’s decisions vis-à-vis the federal funds rate.
Meet me at our first-ever Interface Live on Tuesday, October 22nd! I’ll be chatting with misinformation researcher Renee DiResta. Get tickets.

One of the first adages I heard as a tech reporter is a three-word refrain uttered by anyone who’s ever sought to make something with atoms rather than bits: Hardware is hard. Make a mistake in software and you can push out a fix more or less immediately; make a mistake with hardware and the phones explode. In the old days, a tech company typically made software or hardware, but these days that or has been replaced with an and. After Apple’s outsized success with the iPhone, all the other tech giants got religion on the value of software and hardware working together. And suddenly companies like Microsoft, Google, and Facebook, who once limited themselves to high-margin software businesses, had to invest untold billions in figuring out to make and sell physical objects.

Facebook first dipped a toe in these waters when it bought Oculus, maker of virtual reality hardware, in 2014. Since then, as Salvador Rodriguez recounts in CNBC today, the company has struggled to gain traction in hardware markets. It spun up a research and development lab called Building 8 in 2016, making sci-fi promises about technologies that would let us hear with our skin and type with our minds. But Building 8 was reorganized into nonexistence just two years later — with its only lasting contribution to Facebook’s product lineup being the video-chat device Portal.

Portal launched last year to a tech press skeptical that consumers would welcome into their homes a camera and microphone from a company that has spent the past few years battered by data privacy scandals.
At the same time, it can take a brand years to build market share. There was never a question in my mind whether Facebook would build a second generation of Portal devices — only what they would look like when they arrived, and how the world would react when they did.

On Wednesday we found out. The company introduced three new version of Portal: an 8-inch and a 10-inch version that look like less functional iPads, and an accessory called Portal TV that plugs into your television. As before, a major theme of coverage was the privacy risks associated with the device.
Andrew “Boz” Bosworth, the longtime Facebook executive who now runs the hardware division, says Portal is a quintessential Facebook product. “This product is the very core essence of what Facebook does,” he said Tuesday at a product demonstration I attended in San Francisco. “It connects you meaningfully with the people you care most about.”

The way it connects people is largely through video calls, which it spiffs up with augmented reality features, a camera that tracks people around the room, and other enhancements. To me it all feels like a lot of work to make video calls marginally better, but Bosworth told me that Portal is something different.

“Video calling on the phone always felt very transactional,” he told me. “Your left hand is sacrificed to the call until you’re done. [You’d think] ‘how can I get off this call as politely as possible? Whereas Portal is a lot more like hanging out. You don’t have to be doing anything. That, I think, is something that is interesting.”

Sure, I said. But why not just buy an iPad and use Skype or FaceTime?

“Right now those are not good experiences,” Bosworth said. “Go set an iPad up and spend a ton of time video-calling people you care about. See how enjoyable it, is or how annoying it is. And then do it with Portal.

“This is where I think people go wrong,” he continued. “People just look at the features on the box … That’s not there this lives. This lives in the experience.”

It remains to be seen how many more people will sign up for that experience than did last year. In the meantime, it’s clear that the story over privacy and in-home displays doesn’t begin and end with Facebook. On the same day news of Portal came out, the Washington Post reported on how your smart TV is monitoring what you watch to target ads at you, and the Financial Times reported that your smart TV is sending market research data to Netflix and personally identifying information to Google.
A couple follow-up notes from yesterday’s column about Facebook’s forthcoming judicial branch. One, I’m told that the current working name is the “oversight board,” rather than the “independent oversight board,” even though that language was in yesterday’s blog post. The board will eventually be able to amend its bylines to change the name if it wants, Facebook told me.

Of more consequence: Evelyn Douek has a good post at Lawfare in which she explores how a recent update to Facebook’s values could affect how the board ultimately makes its decisions.
Therefore, in cases of ambiguity, when the extent of risk posed by a certain category of speech is not necessarily clear, Facebook will not—and, if the Oversight Board project works, cannot—err on the side of caution and simply take that content down “just in case.” This reflects a certain degree of risk tolerance on Facebook’s part—which will no doubt be praised by those committed to a robust marketplace of ideas. It also perhaps reflects the changing role of these private companies that facilitate so much public discourse: They are not literally, technically or legally a new public square, but their systemic importance means that society is coming to have expectations of their responsibility to the public that go beyond mere consumer satisfaction.
The Oversight Board is fundamentally a bet by Facebook that the legitimacy of its decisions matters—and matters more than getting its way on every question. As other platforms seem to double down on the idea that they do not need to publicly explain their decisions or abide by their own rules when it does not suit their short-term interests, Facebook appears to be making a different wager: Accountability and legitimacy can reassure users—and regulators—of the value of its product. Acting in bad faith would undermine Facebook’s own gamble. Legitimacy, Facebook hopes, will become part of its value proposition.
People with Amazon Alexa speakers can start making campaign donations to 2020 presidential candidates using their devices starting tomorrow. But the rules say you can only donate to “principal” candidates, and Amazon hasn’t yet clearly defined who falls into this category. (Makena Kelly / The Verge)

At least 75 countries, including the U.S. and Germany, have adopted China’s surveillance strategies, using facial recognition software to track citizens. Much of the software comes from Chinese telecom company Huawei. (Ryan Tracy / The Wall Street Journal)

The Chinese government ran a Russian-style disinformation campaign on Twitter in an effort to discredit Hong Kong protestors. Twitter has taken down 1,000 fake accounts linked to this operation, and suspended 200,000 more. (Raymond Zhong, Steven Lee Myers, and Jin Wu / The New York Times)

Hong Kong protesters make clever use of tools including Telegram, Twitter, and live maps. The entrepreneur and social critic Maciej Cegłowski shares characteristically sharp notes . (Maciej Cegłowski / Idle Words)

London’s Met police force is teaming up with Facebook in an effort to prevent live streaming terrorist attacks around the world. The Met will give Facebook video footage from officer trainings to help the company develop technology that can detect when someone is live-streaming an attack. (Metropolitan Police)
Another Latin abbreviation you may see is "viz", which is short for videlicet, meaning "namely."
This n.b. is sometimes written at the end of a communication that needs special attention.
It stands for nota bene, which means "take notice," or "note well."